Text from https://www.novaims.unl.pt/en/education/programs/postgraduate-programs-and-master-degree-programs/master-degree-program-in-data-science-and-advanced-analytics/:
Master Degree Program in Data Science and Advanced Analytics
Master's Degree Program in Data Science and Advanced Analytics
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Master Degree Program in Data Science and Advanced Analytics
The popularity of Data Science and Analytics has been steadily growing in the last few years, both in Industry and Academia. The Master Degree Program in Data Science and Advanced Analytics is
aimed at analytical oriented people wishing to meet the challenges of modern technology by solving new and challenging problems, who like to turn data into knowledge
and aspire to develop a career in a field with huge potential for growth and with great demand worldwide.
In every academic year, the partners offer a paid internship to the 1
st
year students, to be undertaken during the 2
nd
year. 1st year students should apply to the internship(s) they are interested in. The internship will be assigned to the student gathering the best qualification in the application.
This Master is ranked, for the 2
nd
time in a row, as the
best Master program in Data Analytics in the
Western Europe
by Eduniversal, an international agency that publishes an annual ranking of the best MBA and Master degree programs in the world.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025
. To apply, click
here
. Please note that
vacancies for the specialization in
Business Analytics
have already been filled.
EDUNIVERSAL
For the 2
nd
time in a row, this program is ranked as the
best Master program in Data Analytics in the
Western Europe
by Eduniversal.
Know more here
Format
Working Hours
Length and ECTS
4 semesters (120 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times a week
Start Date
September 2025
Specializations
This program has two specializations, identifying the two main areas and trends of Data Science and Analytics: Business Analytics and Data Science. They share a core curriculum, consisting in a solid training in the main paradigms associated with vast amounts of data, decision making processes, statistics, data mining and machine learning, and the processes of creation and maintenance of descriptive and predictive models. Each specialization is dedicated to a specific field:
Business
Analytics
More oriented to information management and business. This specialization will train students with a stronger business oriented background, that will allow them to identify and implement the most adequate analytical models to different business problems and functional areas. In addition, students will be able to interpret the results of business analytics and their implications to business. Finally, according to the data analysis results, they will be able to make data driven decisions to optimize the business process.
Know more
Data Science
More oriented to information technology and computer science. This specialization will provide stronger technical skills, allowing students to master all the most known and widely used paradigms and environments for software development. Students from this specialization will be specialized in problem solving, optimization and computational intelligence, they will be able to approach big data technically and they will have solid skills in methods like deep learning, that are very much in demand in the global market nowadays.
Know more
Partnerships
Tranquilidade
Future Healthcare
BI4ALL
Loading...
resumo do conteudo da tabela
Curricular
Unit
Program
Annual Prize
Value
caption text
Internships Agreements
Tranquilidade
Accenture
Ageas
Feedzai
Loading...
resumo do conteudo da tabela
Curricular
Unit
Program
Annual Prize
Value
caption text
Regulation and accreditations
Regulation and accreditations
Apply here
Regulation and accreditations
Regulation
Regulation of the Master in Data Science and Advanced Analytics (in Portuguese)
.
(Regulation No 917/2022, published in the Official Gazette, 2
nd
series, No.190, September 30
th
, 2022).
Accreditations
Study Program Self-Evaluation Report
;
External Review Team Final Report
;
Decision of the A3ES Board of Directors
;
A3ES Deliberation (in portuguese)
.
Xavier Gonçalves
Data & Business Analyst | Whitestar Asset Solutions
Jorge Abreu
Data Scientist | Ageas Portugal
Eleonora Sbrissa
Senior Data Analyst | VORTAL Connecting Business
Carina Albuquerque
Invited Lecturer | NOVA IMS
Lara Oliveira
Invited Lecturer | NOVA IMS
2
/
5
The course offered me excellent technical tools in the field of Data Science. These resources allow any professional to stand out and get better opportunities in organizations.
The Master Degree Program in Data Science & Advanced Analytics allowed me to learn about the main ways of working with one of the most important resources today: data. It had a very practical component, which was enhanced by the possibility of entering a curricular internship that allowed me to have a realistic perspective of the current challenges of organizations, in addition to have direct contact with professionals in the field.
The specialization in Business Analytics was my choice to change my career path into data analysis.
The program is well structured, innovative, and covers a wide range of topics that are required when looking for a job in this area. The curriculum tackles a theoretical approach and an application to real life through group projects. It’s also a big opportunity to meet people from all over the world for its internationality.
The Master Degree Program in Advanced Analytics focuses on learning and developing optimized solutions to respond to new and demanding analytical problems. The multidisciplinary and international scope, the constant updating of relevant topics in the market and the teaching excellence make this program a unique and peculiarly unique experience in the academic context.
NOVA IMS is the right school to create skills suited to one of the biggest challenges today: extracting useful information from data from different domains, from social networks to hospitals. It is a faculty that opens windows of opportunity and leads us to success.

