Text from https://www.novaims.unl.pt/en/education/programs/postgraduate-programs-and-master-degree-programs/master-degree-in-geographic-information-systems-and-science/:
Master Degree in Geographic Information Systems and Science
Master's Degree in Geographic Information Systems and Science
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Master Degree in Geographic Information Systems and Science
The Master's Degree Program in Geographic Information Systems and Science
provides a technical and scientific framework related to the use of geographic information technology
and analysis
, especially skills related to the modeling and analysis of spatial data, combined with programming, and the design and planning of geographic information technology and analysis in organizations.
This program is developed
in collaboration with UNIGIS
, international network that brings together the best schools in Geographic Information Systems and Science and it has obtained the GEOINT (Geospatial Intelligence) accreditation by the United States Geospatial Intelligence Foundation (USGIF) and was the 1
st
program outside the U.S. to be accredited by this organization.
This program is taught in b-learning or e-learning formats. It lasts 4 semesters: 2 semesters correspond to the curricular component and 2 semesters to the development of a thesis, work project or internship report, in a total of 120 ECTS. The classes (1
st
and 2
nd
semesters of the program) will start in
September 2025
, ending in June 2026, and are held
after working hours
.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
To apply, click
here
.
Format
E-learning and
B-learning
Length and ECTS
4 semesters (120 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times a week (after 4:30 p.m.)
Start Date
September 2025
Specializations
This program has two specializations, identifying the main two trends of Geographic Information Systems. The study plan provides a technical and scientific framework related to the use of geographic information technology and analysis.
Each specialization is dedicated to one specific area:
Geographic Information
Systems and Science
Specialized training in the foundations of geographic information systems focused on the creation and planning of technology and analysis in organizations. This specialization has only one mandatory course unit and allows a personalized path.
Know more
Geospatial
Data Science
Specialized training in analysis, modeling, and visualization of geographic information in environments with large amounts of data.
Know more
Partner entity
UNIGIS
Loading...
resumo do conteudo da tabela
Curricular
Unit
Program
Annual Prize
Value
caption text
Regulatory standards & accreditations
Regulatory standards & accreditations
Apply here
Regulatory standards & accreditations
Regulatory standards
Regulation of the Master's Degree Program in Geographic Information Systems and Science
(in Portuguese).
(Regulation No. 1227/2023, published in the Official Gazette, 2
nd
series, No. 221, November 15
th
, 2023).
Accreditations
Study Program Self-Evaluation Report
;
External Review Team Final Report (CAE)
;
Decision of the A3ES Board of Directors
;
A3ES Deliberation
.
Alexandre Dargains
Managing Partner and Project Manager | Dargains Projects
Telmo Dias
Head of the Hydrographic Survey Section of the Hydrography Division | Hydrographic Institute Portuguese Navy
Catarina Nunes
Chief of Geospatial Service at Naval Command | Portuguese Navy
Jorge Pereira
Executive Director | Bohus Biotech Portugal
André Duarte
Senior Research Technician | RAIZ (Navigator Company)
Jorge Cunha
Project Manager | CTGA - Centro Tecnológico de Gestão Ambiental
Diogo Cardoso
Consultant ServiceNow | Adquam
Luís Canaria
Prehospital Emergency Technician | INEM
João David
Teacher and Researcher | NOVA IMS
2
/
9
NOVA IMS surprised me by offering a pleasant academic and professional experience. The high level of quality and demand of the Master's gave me the opportunity to generate even more value for my projects, clients and business partners. Thanks to this environment of synergy and exchange of knowledge, I have won awards and notable achievements for my career. Thank you very much NOVA IMS.
The Master Program in Geographic Information Systems and Science focuses on the analysis, management and visualization of geospatial information, fundamental methods in a global and digital world. Geoinformation is transversal to all sciences and activities (economy, health, security) and its study motivates innovative approaches and the generation of new knowledge
In order to raise the quality of geospatial challenges in my work, I joined the Master Program in Geographic Information Systems and Science, which allows me to assimilate knowledge in a clear way and to open new horizons, while also provides the necessary tools to improve in this area. The international aspect provides an enriching exchange of experiences.
When I was looking for a program in Geographic Information Systems that would allow me to grow and deepen knowledge, combining a solid theoretical training with a strong practical component, the Master Degree Program in Geographic Information Systems and Science came to me as “the reference". Exceeded expectations! The e-learning format, despite some initial skepticism, allowed me to manage the issue of distance and availability, in no way compromising the rigor and the demand. On the contrary. I found a diversified offer, with a faculty of recognized professional and academic merit, whose support was decisive for the completion of the program. Better yet, NOVA IMS’ experience and follow-up continue well beyond the end of the program!
Quality, rigorous, targeted and very up-to-date teaching.
The Master Degree Program in Geographic Information Systems and Science offered me new perspectives and ideas to be able to apply in reality.
It was/is worth it.
The way they address the relevant issues in terms of subjects such as Environment, Spatial Planning and Urban Planning, as a resource to geographic information technologies, in addition to their contribution to society through scientific research, makes this Master Degree Program the most relevant at national level, which I felt proud to be part of!
The Master Degree Program in Geographic Information Systems and Science stands out for its innovative and differentiating curriculum, considering what organizations want for their staff and introducing very current topics.
The Master Program in Geographic Information Systems and Science, with an internationally recognized academic quality and associated with the availability of the latest technologies, is the best option to be at the forefront of Geographic Information Systems.
The best Master Degree Program in Geographic Information Systems in Portugal.
The excellent international partners, the teaching staff and the learning materials are a differential and valuable factor that allowed me to start an academic and professional career in this area.

