Text from https://www.novaims.unl.pt/en/education/programs/postgraduate-programs-and-master-degree-programs/master-degree-in-data-driven-marketing-with-a-specialization-in-marketing-intelligence/:
Master Degree in Data-Driven Marketing, with a specialization in Marketing Intelligence
Master's Degree in Data-Driven Marketing, with a
specialization in Marketing Intelligence
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Master Degree in Data-Driven Marketing, with a specialization in Marketing Intelligence
The Master Degree Program in Data-Driven Marketing, with a specialization in Marketing Intelligence, trains technical and management staff to
lead and guide the collection, organization, analysis, exploration, and dissemination of marketing information
in organizations.
This program provides a balanced curriculum between a component based on marketing management tools and other supported by information analysis and management methodologies.
Ranked as the
best Program in Retail Sales Management & Business Development in
Portugal
and the 4
th
best in the
World
by Eduniversal, an international agency that publishes an annual ranking of the best MBA and Master degree programs in the world.
The 1
st
year of the Master’s corresponds to the Postgraduate Program in Marketing Intelligence
–  for more information about the Postgraduate Program, click
here
.
The applications for this program are open between February 6
th
and March 7
th
, 2025
. To apply, click
here
.
Support and funding
https://recuperarportugal.gov.pt/
Loading...
resumo do conteudo da tabela
Curricular
Unit
Program
Annual Prize
Value
caption text
EDUNIVERSAL
Ranked as the
best program in
Portugal
and the 4
th
best in the
World
in Retail Sales Management & Business Development
, according to Eduniversal
Learn more here
Academic Year 2025-26
The program lasts
4 semesters and the classes (1
st
and 2
nd
semesters of the program) will start in September 2025, ending in June 2026, 2 to 3 times a week. This program is offered in two formats:
Working Hours
Format
It is aimed at young graduates and professionals to study in full-time.
Know more
After Working
Hours Format
It is particularly aimed at professionals who intend to make their studies compatible with their professional activity.
Know more
Carolina de Sousa
Junior Marketing Specialist | Avlino
Patrícia Afonso
Digital Data Analyst | Mercedes-Benz.io
Carolina Marques
Digital Innovation & Marketing Operations | Wunderman Thompson Portugal
Daniel Lopes
Communications Officer | International Monetary Fund*
Pedro Almeida
Executive Media Planner | Carat
2
/
5
My time in this master's program was a decisive milestone in my academic and professional life. The excellence of the teaching staff, combined with the modern facilities and technological resources, provided me with a solid grounding that met my expectations and those of the marketplace. The practical approach of the course allowed me to effectively apply the theoretical knowledge and prepared me for the challenges of the professional world. NOVA IMS is commited to providing its students with an excellent education. By promoting a hands-on and data-driven approach, it not only met but also exceeded my expectations.
I couldn't have made a better choice than embarking on my academic journey at NOVA IMS. As an institution, NOVA IMS offers its students top-tier education and equips them with the essential tools to propel future data analysis experts into both the national and international markets. From day one, students are prepared to apply the knowledge gained in theoretical classes into practical applications, fostering a deeper understanding of the subjects and the development of a data-driven mindset. It's also worth noting the mutual support among colleagues and the academic spirit of the NOVA IMS community, which undoubtedly leave a lasting impact on every student.
The specialization in Marketing Intelligence was the reason why I returned to Portugal. What a good decision I made! It is a very complete program, with an initial theoretical approach that allows us to have a framework to roll up our sleeves and ‘get your hands dirty’. Big data becomes something we deal with on a daily basis, to automate the processes of our companies and to work in an interconnected world that facilitates decision-making processes.
After work, I met colleagues from many industries who complemented this knowledge and together we made this journey unforgettable. I made the right choice!
The specialization in Marketing Intelligence allows you to explore the incredible power of data science in optimizing communication strategies that make an impact and add value to multiple stakeholders.
*The views and opinions expressed in this post are those of the author and do not reflect the official policy or position of the International Monetary Fund.
NOVA IMS is more than just a university, it is also a reference in the business market, an aggregator of experiences, and an institution that is guided by excellence and rigor. As for the specialization in Marketing Intelligence, it is a complete program that has provided me professional growth, the necessary tools for the business world and, above all, added value to my career.

