Text from https://www.novaims.unl.pt/en/education/programs/postgraduate-programs-and-master-degree-programs/master-degree-in-information-management-with-a-specialization-in-business-intelligence/:
Master Degree in Information Management, with a specialization in Business Intelligence
Master's Degree in Information Management, with a
specialization in Business Intelligence
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Master Degree in Information Management, with a specialization in Business Intelligence
This Master Degree Program in Information Management, with a specialization in Business Intelligence aims to train experts and managers able to design, build and use business intelligence and analytics processes to support organizational decision making and knowledge management, inducing value creation and promoting its operational and strategic excellence.
This program
is ranked, for the 6
th
time in a row, as the best Master's degree Program in Business Intelligence and Strategy in the
World
by Eduniversal, an international agency that publishes an annual ranking of the best MBA and Master degree programs in the world.
The 1
st
year of the Master’s corresponds to the Postgraduate Program in Business Intelligence
–  for more information about the Postgraduate Program, click
here
.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025
. To apply, click
here
.
EDUNIVERSAL
Best Master Degree Program in Business Intelligence and Strategy in the
World
according to the Best Masters Ranking 2024 of Eduniversal
Know more here
Format
Working Hours and After Working Hours
Length and ECTS
3 semesters (95 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times a week
Start Date
September 2025
Academic year 2025-26
The program lasts 3 semesters and the classes (1
st
and 2
nd
semesters of the program) will start in September 2025, ending in June 2026, 2 to 3 times a week. This program is offered in two formats:
Working
Hours Format
It is aimed at young graduates and professionals to study in full-time.
Know more
After Working
Hours Format
It is particularly aimed at professionals who intend to make their studies compatible with their professional activity.
Know more
Daniela Marques
Business Intelligence Analyst | Vodafone
Ivo Bernardo
Partner / Senior Data Scientist | DareData Engineering
2
/
2
At NOVA IMS, we find the perfect environment to learn and grow. The education is designed in line with the latest market trends, which means that in addition to theory, the master's program also has a strong hands-on component. Beyond the academic aspect, there is always room for new ideas, entrepreneurship, and making an impact in the community, whether through participation in existing extracurricular activities or by creating new ones. You also find that there’s a strong connection between professors, students, and the community, which eases integration and learning.
The master's degree in Business Intelligence provides us with the necessary tools to create a data-driven mentality so essential in today's business. It has emerged in my career as a complement to my degree in Information Management and has allowed me to deepen and consolidate the concepts initially acquired, particularly in the areas of data transformation, statistics, and predictive models. Without forgetting the basics of the Information Management area, the subjects taught in the GCBI master's degree have been continually evolving, keeping abreast of the trends of the Analytics market and being the right choice both for new professionals in the area and for those who want to broaden their knowledge.

