Text from https://www.novaims.unl.pt/en/education/programs/postgraduate-programs-and-master-degree-programs/master-degree-in-data-driven-marketing-with-a-specialization-in-digital-marketing-and-analytics/:
Master Degree in Data-Driven Marketing, with a specialization in Digital Marketing and Analytics
Master's Degree in Data-Driven Marketing, with a
specialization in Digital Marketing and Analytics
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Master Degree in Data-Driven Marketing, with a specialization in Digital Marketing and Analytics
The Master's Degree Program in Data-Driven Marketing, with a specialization in Digital Marketing and Analytics, is aimed at managers, experts and other professionals who want to
obtain skills in Digital Marketing and Web Analytics
, using the most advanced methodologies for collecting, analyzing and processing data to support decision making in Web Marketing.
This specialization provides a solid foundation to meet the new marketing challenges, which allows building a strategic and integrated customer vision - online and offline - and contributes to improving the decision-making process in companies.
This program is ranked, for the 3
rd
time in a row, as
the best program in E-Business and Digital Marketing in
Portugal
and the 3
rd
best in
Western Europe
by Eduniversal, an international agency that publishes the annual ranking of the best MBA.
The 1
st
year of the Master’s corresponds to the Postgraduate Program in Digital Marketing and Analytics
–  for more information about the Postgraduate Program, click
here
.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025
. To apply, click
here
.
Support and funding
https://recuperarportugal.gov.pt/
Loading...
resumo do conteudo da tabela
Curricular
Unit
Program
Annual Prize
Value
caption text
EDUNIVERSAL
For the 3
rd
time in a row, is the
best program in E-Business and Digital Marketing in
Portugal
and the 3
rd
best in
Western Europe
according to Eduniversal
Learn more here
Academic year 2025-26
The program lasts 4 semesters and the classes (1
st
and 2
nd
semesters of the program) will start in September 2025, ending in June 2026, 2 to 3 times a week. This program is offered in two formats:
Working
Hours Format
It is aimed at young graduates and professionals to study in full-time.
Know more
After Working
Hours Format
It is particularly aimed at professionals who intend to make their studies compatible with their professional activity.
Know more
Joana Araújo
Marketplace Intern | FNAC
Tânia Gomes
Junior Data Engineer | NTT Data
2
/
2
The postgraduate program in Digital Marketing & Analytics allows us as students to acquire analytical and creative skills and tools in Digital and Web Marketing. It was and continues to be a great investment. When choosing this program and NOVA IMS, I feel prepared for the job market, due to the quality of teaching of the course units taught here. Quality, demand and excellence are the words I use to describe not only the program, but also NOVA IMS, which open many doors for me.
The Postgraduate Program In Digital Marketing and Analytics of NOVA IMS is an excellent opportunity for people who want to have the perfect balance between theoretical and practical components. The academic environment (research work, dynamics, classes, teachers and colleagues) is undoubtedly excellent. I would choose NOVA IMS again!

