Text from https://www.novaims.unl.pt/en/education/programs/postgraduate-programs-and-master-degree-programs/master-degree-in-data-driven-marketing/:
Master Degree in Data-Driven Marketing
Master's Degree in Data-Driven Marketing
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Master Degree in Data-Driven Marketing
The Master Degree Program in Data-Driven Marketing aims to train
marketing specialists and managers with analytical tools applied in Marketing
, to support decision making in this area.
It is designed to include four alternative paths (specializations):
Data Science for Marketing
- aimed at managers, technical staff and other professionals who wish to acquire analytical skills in the field of marketing, using the most advanced technologies and methodologies for collecting, analyzing and processing data in the scope of data science, in order to allow making data-driven based decisions.
Digital Marketing and Analytics
- aimed at managers, experts and other professionals who want to obtain skills in Digital Marketing and Web Analytics, using the most advanced methodologies for collecting, analyzing and processing data to support decision-making in Web Marketing. Ranked, for the 3
rd
time in a row, as the
best Program in E-Business and Digital Marketing in
Portugal
and the 3
rd
in the
Western Europe
by Eduniversal.
Marketing Intelligence
- trains marketing professionals to lead and guide the collection, organization, analysis, exploration, and dissemination of marketing information in organizations. It is aimed also at Information Systems managers. Ranked as the
best Program in Retail Sales Management & Business Development in
Portugal
and the 4
th
best in the
World
by Eduniversal.
Marketing Research and CRM
– aimed at marketing professionals who wish to obtain and deepen their skills in Marketing Research and CRM, using the most advanced methods of collection, analysis and treatment of information. It is particularly designed for technical staff and market researchers, as well for professionals who are involved in Customer Relationship Management in Banking and Insurance, Telecommunications, FMCG (fast-moving consumer goods), among others.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025
. To apply, click
here
.
Support and funding
https://recuperarportugal.gov.pt/
Loading...
resumo do conteudo da tabela
Curricular
Unit
Program
Annual Prize
Value
caption text
Regulation and accreditations
Regulation and accreditations
Apply here
Regulation and accreditations
Regulation
Regulation of the Master Program in Data Driven Marketing
(in Portuguese).
(Regulation No 882/2022, published in the Official Gazette, 2
nd
series, No. 179, January 15
th
, 2022)
Accreditations
Submission of the application - New study cycle
(in Portuguese);
External Review Team Final Report
(in Portuguese);
Decision of the A3ES Board of Directors
(in Portuguese);
A3ES Deliberation
.
Patrícia Afonso
Digital Data Analyst | Mercedes-Benz.io
Anabell Góngora
Lead Marketing Program Manager - Retail (UKI) | Accenture
Daniel Lopes
Communications Officer | International Monetary Fund*
Carolina Marques
Digital Innovation & Marketing Operations | Wunderman Thompson Portugal
Joana Araújo
Marketplace Intern | FNAC
Raquel Lopes Santos
Customer Insights Analyst | Worten
Gabi Vieira
Student | Postgraduate Program in Data Science for Marketing
2
/
7
I couldn't have made a better choice than embarking on my academic journey at NOVA IMS. As an institution, NOVA IMS offers its students top-tier education and equips them with the essential tools to propel future data analysis experts into both the national and international markets. From day one, students are prepared to apply the knowledge gained in theoretical classes into practical applications, fostering a deeper understanding of the subjects and the development of a data-driven mindset. It's also worth noting the mutual support among colleagues and the academic spirit of the NOVA IMS community, which undoubtedly leave a lasting impact on every student.
NOVA IMS offers a great experience for International students.
The quality of teaching is exceptional and qualified, which means that the programs are demanding and not easy, but you still allowed time to have fun and enjoy Portugal. I am very pleased with my experience, and I have learned a lot.
The specialization in Marketing Intelligence allows you to explore the incredible power of data science in optimizing communication strategies that make an impact and add value to multiple stakeholders.
*The views and opinions expressed in this post are those of the author and do not reflect the official policy or position of the International Monetary Fund.
The specialization in Marketing Intelligence was the reason why I returned to Portugal. What a good decision I made! It is a very complete program, with an initial theoretical approach that allows us to have a framework to roll up our sleeves and ‘get your hands dirty’. Big data becomes something we deal with on a daily basis, to automate the processes of our companies and to work in an interconnected world that facilitates decision-making processes.
After work, I met colleagues from many industries who complemented this knowledge and together we made this journey unforgettable. I made the right choice!
The postgraduate program in Digital Marketing & Analytics allows us as students to acquire analytical and creative skills and tools in Digital and Web Marketing. It was and continues to be a great investment. When choosing this program and NOVA IMS, I feel prepared for the job market, due to the quality of teaching of the course units taught here. Quality, demand and excellence are the words I use to describe not only the program, but also NOVA IMS, which open many doors for me.
The decision to attend the specialization in Marketing Research and CRM proved to be the right choice. The timeliness of learning and the excellence and dedication of professors, are profound drivers of success that complement my background at NOVA IMS, enhancing new skills that allow me to face the dynamics and demands of the job market. I believe it is a strong boost to the development of my professional career.
NOVA IMS was definitely the right decision in my academic career.
The postgraduate program in Data Science for Marketing offers the perfect combination of theory and practice, combined with a high quality faculty, crucial factors in choosing this program. It helped me to acquire a set of tools necessary to evolve professionally, offering me a holistic view of the world
of information technology and marketing. I am convinced that it was undoubtedly an asset and it had a very positive return.

