Text from https://www.novaims.unl.pt/en/education/programs/postgraduate-programs-and-master-degree-programs/master-degree-in-information-management/:
Master Degree in Information Management
Master's Degree in Information Management
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Master Degree in Information Management
The Master Degree Program in Information Management aims to train information managers to not only
lead the creation and development of systems
, but also implement strategies, methodologies and tools able to
mobilize the organizations' information to promote innovation and increase process efficiency.
The Master degree Program in Information Management is designed to include three alternative paths (specializations):
Business Intelligence
- aimed at professionals who want to pursue a career in the business analytics field, as well as those seeking career advancement or change, especially from fields such as: Management, Engineering, Economics, Statistics and Information Management, Computer Science or related. This specialization answers the program answers the industry’s demand for business information systems and data analytics, ensuring graduates the required training to manage and build actionable insights.  It is
ranked, for the 6
th
time in a row, as the best Master Program in the
World
in Business Intelligence and Strategy
by Eduniversal, an international agency that publishes an annual ranking of the best MBA and Master degree programs in the World;
Digital Transformation
-
is designed for individuals who want to gain a comprehensive understanding of digital transformation and its impact on various industries. Whether you're a recent graduate in the fields of engineering, management, or technology or an experienced professional looking to expand your knowledge, this specialization will provide you with the skills and insights you need to help organizations navigate the challenges and opportunities of digital transformation.
Information Systems Management
- aimed at those who have roles and responsibilities in the area of Information Systems. Managers and technical staff who have roles in areas of Organization Management and Information Technology, in the coordination and development of Information Systems projects, information management, IT auditing, quality control and strategic management of Information Systems, among others, are the target of this specialization. It is
ranked as the best Master Program in Information Systems Management in
Portugal
and the best in
Western Europe
by Eduniversal.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025
. To apply, click
here
.
Format
Working Hours and After Working Hours
Length and ECTS
3 semesters (95 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times a week
Start Date
September 2025
EDUNIVERSAL
Ranked among the best in the world!
The specialization in Business Intelligence is the best Master Program in the
World
in Business Intelligence and Strategy and the specialization in Information Systems and Technologies Management is the best Program in
Western Europe
in Information Systems Management, according with the Best Masters Ranking 2024 by Eduniversal.
Regulation and accreditations
Regulation and accreditations
Apply here
Regulation and accreditations
Regulation
Regulation of the Master in Information Management
.
Accreditations
Study Program Self-Evaluation Report
;
External Review Team Final Report (CAE)
;
Decision of the A3ES Board of Directors
;
A3ES Deliberation
.
Gonçalo Maximiano
Digital Product Manager | Millennium bcp
Daniela Marques
Business Intelligence Analyst | Vodafone
Ivo Bernardo
Partner / Senior Data Scientist | DareData Engineering
2
/
3
To be an alumni of NOVA IMS means being well-prepared for real-world challenges. The foundational training provided is strong and applicable to the everyday operations of businesses. It teaches us to recognize the significance of information in decision-making, with tangible impacts on individuals, equipping us with both technical and interpersonal skills to lead in the current and future generations within the job market. This prepares us with the technical and business expertise to engage with development teams and stakeholders at the highest level.
At NOVA IMS, we find the perfect environment to learn and grow. The education is designed in line with the latest market trends, which means that in addition to theory, the master's program also has a strong hands-on component. Beyond the academic aspect, there is always room for new ideas, entrepreneurship, and making an impact in the community, whether through participation in existing extracurricular activities or by creating new ones. You also find that there’s a strong connection between professors, students, and the community, which eases integration and learning.
Throughout my academic career, NOVA IMS has provided me with the necessary learning to be a better Data Scientist, with its teaching method focused on the most relevant tools in the market and incorporating the most current and basic themes in its curriculum in the creation of good data analysis and statistics professionals. With a practical approach, focused on problem-solving and an academic environment of excellence, with great proximity between teachers and students, NOVA IMS was a school of enormous importance in my development, the right choice for what would be my professional future.

