Text from https://www.novaims.unl.pt/en/education/programs/postgraduate-programs-and-master-degree-programs/master-degree-in-data-driven-marketing-with-a-specialization-in-data-science-for-marketing/:
Master Degree in Data-Driven Marketing, with a specialization in Data Science for Marketing
Master's Degree in Data-Driven Marketing,
with a specialization in Data Science for Marketing
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Master Degree in Data-Driven Marketing, with a specialization in Data Science for Marketing
The Master Degree Program in Data-Driven Marketing, with a specialization in Data Science for Marketing, aims to fill a gap in the postgraduate training of marketing professionals who need to gain new skills to be able to
actively participate in the development and application of analytical marketing models
. With the proposed study plan, this program presents an up-to-date structure that combines several areas of marketing with a transversal approach of data science to leverage them.
This program is designed to provide excellent training, articulating key concepts and challenges for marketing decision-making in its multiple strategic, innovation and methodological strands with
practical data-oriented processing (Data Science & Big Data), Artificial Intelligence (Generative AI & Machine Learning), and social network analysis and consumer behavior
. The versatility in the offer of optional curricular units also allows reinforcing theoretical and practical knowledge in several related areas such as:
digital marketing, social media, e-commerce, and search engine optimization.
The 1
st
year of the Master’s corresponds to the Postgraduate Program in Data Science For Marketing –
for more information about the Postgraduate Program, click
here
.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025
. To apply, click
here
.
Support and funding
https://recuperarportugal.gov.pt/
Loading...
resumo do conteudo da tabela
Curricular
Unit
Program
Annual Prize
Value
caption text
Academic Year 2025-26
The program lasts
4 semesters and the classes (1
st
and 2
nd
semesters of the program) will start in September 2025, ending in June 2026, 2 to 3 times a week. This program is offered in two formats:
Working Hours
Format
It is aimed at young graduates and professionals to study in full-time.
Know more
After Working
Hours Format
It is particularly aimed at professionals who intend to make their studies compatible with their professional activity.
Know more
Filipe Dias
Ad Ops Graduate | GroupM
Gabi Vieira
Student | Postgraduate Program in Data Science for Marketing
Anabell Góngora
Lead Marketing Program Manager - Retail (UKI) | Accenture
2
/
3
The master's degree that catapults theoretical knowledge of Marketing with a focus on the quantitative side. This course allows students to acquire knowledge of programming and statistics, always with a focus on Marketing. There is an awareness on the part of the lecturers towards students who don't come from a quantitative background, and they try to provide a creative, user-friendly experience, and a path for students to feel comfortable in this new field. I have nothing but good things to say about this university. Studying at NOVA IMS was one of the best choices I've made!
NOVA IMS was definitely the right decision in my academic career.
The postgraduate program in Data Science for Marketing offers the perfect combination of theory and practice, combined with a high quality faculty, crucial factors in choosing this program. It helped me to acquire a set of tools necessary to evolve professionally, offering me a holistic view of the world
of information technology and marketing. I am convinced that it was undoubtedly an asset and it had a very positive return.
NOVA IMS offers a great experience for International students.
The quality of teaching is exceptional and qualified, which means that the programs are demanding and not easy, but you still allowed time to have fun and enjoy Portugal. I am very pleased with my experience, and I have learned a lot.

