Text from https://www.novaims.unl.pt/en/education/programs/postgraduate-programs-and-master-degree-programs/master-degree-in-statistics-and-information-management/:
Master Degree in Statistics and Information Management
Master's Degree in Statistics and Information Management
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Master Degree in Statistics and Information Management
The Master's Program in Statistics and Information Management
trains experts and managers to
lead and conduct the collection, organization, analysis, and exploration of information,
offering organizations basic skills to transform data into value.
The Master Degree Program in Statistics and Information Management is designed to include two alternative paths (specializations):
Data Analytics
: aimed at everyone whose concern for analysis and treatment of information is critical to perform their roles, namely managers and technical staff involved in information production for strategic decision-making support in organizations. Marketing technical staff and managers, experts in market research and CRM, Information technologies managers, technical staff of Risk Management, Information systems managers, are among the target groups of this program.
Risk Analysis and Management
: aimed at middle and senior managers of financial and non-financial companies as well as other professionals with duties of risk management in organizations. It is especially for Financial Analysts, Financial Controllers, Auditors, chartered accountants, among others. This program is
r
anked as the best Master Program in Risk Management in Portugal and the 2
nd
best in the
World
by Eduniversal, international agency that publishes an annual ranking of the best MBA and Master degree programs in the World.
The applications for the Master's Program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025
. To apply, click
here
.
Format
After Working Hours
Length and ECTS
3 semesters (95 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times a week
Start Date
September 2025
Maria Henriques
Research Analyst | European Central Bank
The Master Program in Statistics and Information Management has opened many doors for my future career. It provided me with the necessary tools to develop my knowledge on fundamental subjects of all areas related to information management. It also allowed me to explore other course units, thus providing an interdisciplinary portfolio.

