Text from https://www.novaims.unl.pt/en/education/programs/postgraduate-programs-and-master-degree-programs/postgraduate-program-in-business-intelligence-and-analytics-for-hospitality-tourism/:
Postgraduate Program in Business Intelligence and Analytics for Hospitality & Tourism
Postgraduate Program in Business Intelligence and
Analytics for Hospitality & Tourism
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Postgraduate Program in Business Intelligence and Analytics for Hospitality & Tourism
The
Postgraduate Program in Business Intelligence and Analytics for Hospitality & Tourism
responds to the need for higher education in an industry fundamental to the development of the world economy: Tourism. This postgraduate program aims to
prepare professionals capable of actively participating in developing and applying analytical models for tourism and hospitality
, combining the various areas involved with a transversal data science approach to leverage them.
The program will be held in person, with the option of participating online in real time.
With the goal of equipping professionals in the fields of hospitality and tourism, the TIA - Tourism International Academy Project (TIA | PRR) will provide 15 scholarships , worth €2,000 each, for postgraduate students of the edition that will start in February 2025 who:
Are residing in Portugal during the course;
Successfully complete the following
curricular units
, which are essential for completing the postgraduate program:
Data Science for Hospitality and Tourism I;
Business Intelligence in Turismo.
The applications for this program is open until
February 16
th
, 2025
. To apply, click
here
.
Partner Entities
Confederação do Turismo de Portugal
Turismo de Portugal
CLEVER
NEST
Pestana
Vila Galé
Loading...
resumo do conteudo da tabela
Curricular
Unit
Program
Annual Prize
Value
caption text
Support
https://recuperarportugal.gov.pt/
Loading...
resumo do conteudo da tabela
Curricular
Unit
Program
Annual Prize
Value
caption text
Format
After Working Hours
Length and ECTS
2 semesters
(60 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times
a week
Start Date
February 2026
Who is it for?
This Postgraduate Program is aimed at senior managers, public and private technicians, consultants, entrepreneurs, and other professionals who wish to acquire analytical skills in data science in the field of tourism, using the most advanced information management technologies, data collection and analysis methodologies.
Goals
The goal of this program is to train technical staff and managers to:
Acquire Business Intelligence and Business Analytics competences applied to the hospitality and tourism sector;
Deepen analytical and problem-solving skills within a highly dynamic and competitive industry;
Update management and marketing knowledge in the context of digital transformation in a big data era that poses constant challenges to tourism organizations and companies;
Develop hospitality and tourism analytics projects integrating concepts and tools worked throughout the program.
Study plan
Study plan
Academic calendar
Exams calendar
Length and timetable
Admissions and fees
Scholarships
FAQ
Length and timetable
Length
This Postgraduate Program lasts 2 semesters. The classes will start in February 2025, ending in December 2025, and running after working hours (after 6:30 p.m.), 2 to 3 times a week.
Timetable
See
here
the timetable for academic year 2024-25.
Admissions and fees
Last applications phase
Until February 16
th
, 2025.
Entry Requirements
To enter this program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Hold a bachelor's degree in a compatible field (completed by January 2025);
Be proficient in English (spoken and written).
How to Apply and Selection Process
To apply, you need to access the
NOVA IMS' Applications Portal
and follow these steps:
Fill in the form available in the user area, namely
:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae
(this
is the only mandatory document
for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree.
Please note
that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month;
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying
to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee
. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.
Application Fee
The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period, non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.
Registration Fee
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment, the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee (around one week after the admission result announcement), deductible in this postgraduate program's tuition fee, non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:
€1.250 for applicants from EU and Portuguese-speaking countries;
€2.500 for applicants from other countries, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration, students should make the following payments:
€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1,40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
Tuition Fee
The tuition fee is €4.100. However, for the 2024-25 edition, starting in February 2025, there will be special funding from the TIA - Tourism International Academy Project (TIA | PRR), which will provide 15 scholarships, worth €2,000 each, for the edition starting in February 2025.
The criteria for awarding scholarships is as follows:
Be one of the first 15 students pre-registered for the course and, thereafter, enrolled in the postgraduate program.
Reside in Portugal for the duration of the program.
The student must successfully complete the following curricular units, which are essential for completing the postgraduate program:
Data Science for Hospitality and Tourism I;
Business Intelligence in Tourism.
The scholarship amount will be provided to students in July 2025, after the tuition fees due by that date have been settled. The TIA | PRR Project scholarship cannot be combined with any other discounts.
Click
here
to access the Decree 'Atribuição de Bolsas de Incentivo para cursos Ciência de Dados em Hotelaria e Turismo I e Business Intelligence em Turismo, ao abrigo do Plano de Recuperação e Resiliência (PRR)', which establishes the selection and ranking criteria for students applying for the scholarship.
Tuition Fee Payment Dates
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program can be paid in full or in four installments:
Payment in full: from 22
nd
to 28
th
February 2025.
Payment in four instalments:
1º. From 22
nd
to 28
th
February 2025 (corresponding to 25% of the tuition fee);
2º. From 25
th
to 30
th
April 2025 (corresponding to 25% of the tuition fee);
3º. From 25
th
to 30
th
June 2025 (corresponding to 25% of the tuition fee);
4º. From 25
th
to 30
th
September 2025 (corresponding to 25% of the tuition fee).
Discounts
The discounts presented are not cumulative with the TIA | PRR Project scholarship:
Financial discount: students who choose to pay the tuition fee in a single payment have a 2,5% discount on the payable amount;
NOVA IMS’ alumni who have completed a bachelor's, postgraduate, master's, or doctoral degree at NOVA IMS have a 20% discount on tuition fee, cumulative with the financial discount;
Companies that finance the program to 2 employees, in the same academic year, have a 10% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts;
Companies that finance the program to 3 or more employees, in the same academic year, have a 20% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts;
There are special conditions for employees and associates of the program’s partners. For more information, please
contact us.
Members of the Ordem dos Engenheiros – Região Sul, have 15% discount on tuition fees. This discount can be extended to members' spouses and descendants upon presentation of valid documentation. For more information, please contact admissions@novaims.unl.pt. This discount is not cumulative with other financial discounts.
Scholarships
The NOVA IMS programs, offer a unique learning experience, combining theory with the application of the best and most innovative teaching practices.
If you are interested in studying at NOVA IMS and want to explore scholarship and award opportunities, this page is your starting point to discover the options available in the different programs.
Know more about it
here
.
FAQ
Applications
When can I apply?
It is only possible to submit the application during its applications phase. The date of the call for applications is available in the Admissions and Fees page of each program. However, you can fill the application form at any time, submitting it when the applications phase starts.
How can I apply?
The applications are submitted online, in
NOVA IMS’ Applications Portal
. To submit their application, the applicants must register in the Portal, fill the form, upload your Curriculum Vitae, choose the program and pay the application fee in the Portal. The application process is the same for all the applicants, national or international.
Which documents are required?
The only mandatory document during the application process is the
Curriculum Vitae
(in .doc or .pdf format). The applicant can upload other documents such as diploma or other certificate of their qualifications.
How do I convert a file to .PDF?
Here is a list of websites where you can convert files to the pdf format, as a reference:
https://smallpdf.com/word-to-pdf
https://www.zamzar.com/
https://cloudconvert.com/
https://www.ilovepdf.com/
https://online2pdf.com/doc-to-pdf
Is there an application fee?
The application fee is €51 in the academic year 2024-25. The payment of the application fee will be made during the application process in the
Applications’ Portal
, through bank transfer/ATM reference, MBWay, PayPal or Visa. The application will only be considered successfully submitted after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated time. It’s non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.
Can I apply to more than one program?
You can apply to a maximum of 2 programs per application phase, by paying the application fee for each program, that is, the application to 1 program equals the payment of 1 application fee, the application to 2 programs equals the payment of 2 application fees.
I'm a bachelor's degree senior student. Can I apply ?
Yes. If you are a final year student and you graduate until January 2024, you can apply and you must deliver an authenticated copy of your degree certificate or diploma until the beginning of the academic year, until January 2024.
In the application form, a Tax Identification Number is requested. What is Tax Identification Number? I don’t have one, what should I put in that blank field?
In Portugal, the Tax Identification Number is required to identify a taxable entity or person, in tax declarations or financial transactions. If you don’t have a Tax ID Number or similar, please put “999999999” in that field of the application form.
What should I write in the field: “Goals/motivation to apply to this program”?
In this field, please mention:
In which way your background (academic and professional) fits the program;
What are your short-term professional goals;
What are your expectations with the attendance of this program.
Admission
How does the selection process work?
The selection process is based on the analysis of the academic and professional
curriculum
. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some candidates – face-to-face or videoconference).
In case I am contacted for an interview, can it be held at distance?
Yes, the interview can be held at distance, preferably by Zoom.
When will I know the result of the application?
The result of the application will be known, through email, in the date to be announced in the confirmation of submitted application email and/or by the Admissions’ Jury/Programs Manager.
I was admitted in the program. What’s the next step?
In case of admission, the applicant must make the payment of the pre-registration fee (around 1 week after the result announcement), until its deadline, in NOVA IMS’ Applications Portal and upload the diploma or other certificate of his latest qualification (example: Bachelor’s degree, Master’s degree or PhD).
Can I attend more than one program by academic year?
Yes, you may attend two programs per school year, although it’s not recommended. Please pay attention to the fact that there may be overlap of the Mandatory Course Units of each program, as well as the overlap of the exams.
I was admitted in two programs, but I only intend to attend one. What should I do?
In case of admission to two programs, the candidate will have to choose, in the Application Portal, the program in which they intend to attend. After choosing the desired program and paying the pre-registration fee, you must select the option "Withdrawal" in the 2
nd
program in which you do not intend to attend. Thus, your vacancy is available to a candidate on the Waiting List.
I'm on the Waiting List. Can I still be admitted?
Since it is possible for candidates to apply for two programs per application phase, there will be cases where the same candidate has been admitted to both programs, but intends to join only one. In these cases and if the limit number of vacancies is not completed, the remaining vacancy will be assigned to a candidate on the Waiting List.
I intend the invoice for the payment of the application / pre-registration fees.
The Invoice-Receipt will be available in this Applications’ Portal up to 2 business days after the payment, in the tab "Billing/Treasury".
I was admitted in the program, but I need visa. What should I do?
NOVA IMS can issue a document that proves admission in the program, that will be sent to the student and the Embassy. The document will only be issued or provided after the payment of the pre-registration fee. Regardless of issuance the document, the student must contact the Portuguese Embassy or Consulate in their country to get more information.
Other Informations
Is this program taught in Portuguese or English?
Considering the diversity of students’ nationalities, all the classes will be taught in English.
Are there scholarships?
With the goal of equipping professionals in the fields of hospitality and tourism, the TIA - Tourism International Academy Project (TIA | PRR) will provide 15 scholarships , worth €2,000 each, for postgraduate students of the edition that will start in February 2025 who:
Are residing in Portugal for the duration of the course;
Successfully complete the following curricular units, which are essential for completing the postgraduate program: Data Science for Hospitality and Tourism I, and Business Intelligence in Tourism.
Additionaly, you can apply to Universidade Nova de Lisboa’ scholarships and financial support, provided by the university’s Social Welfare Services. You can learn more at
https://sas.unl.pt/en/scholarships-2/scholarships_/
or contact them directly to
bolsas@unl.pt
. We don’t hold information about other scholarships.
Is it possible to park on campus?
The students can park their vehicles on campus, if they have the access card. There are several parking areas on campus and near to NOVA IMS. The request for access of vehicles to Campus de Campolide is made through registration or renewal of registration and subsequent payment. To do this, the interested parties should register in the system and select the type of access. Afterwards, they will receive all the data for the payment. It should be noted that the management of parking spaces is the exclusive responsibility of the NOVA’s Rectory. For more information, please visit the webpage
http://www.unl.pt/en/nova/parking-campus
.
Is there accommodation on campus?
The Social Welfare Services of Universidade Nova has ties with three student residences (one of them in Campus de Campolide) for Portuguese scholarship student and international students. The capacity of accommodation at school residences is limited. We can’t, in any way, guarantee you a room and we can only put your name on a waiting list, only after confirmation of admission. You will find more information about the residences at
https://sas.unl.pt/en/accommodation/
.
In case you are admitted to the program and want accommodation in one of the University’s residences, please contact
adnovaims@novaims.unl.pt
.
Can you help me look for accommodation websites?
Here’s a list of websites, just for reference:
Airbnb
;
BQuarto
;
Casa Alfacinha
;
Collegiate
;
Coolivin
;
Easy Roomate
;
Erasmusu
;
Erasmus Life Lisboa
;
Erasmus Lisboa
;
Erasmus Student Network
;
Fundação Cidade de Lisboa
;
Housing Anywhere
;
Houze Student
;
Lemon Garden
;
Lisbon Rooms
;
Livensa Living
;
Residência Avenidas
;
Accommodation at Rua Fialho de Almeida 17 4E
;
Spot A Home
;
The Housing Concept
;
Traveling To Lisbon
;
UHub
;
Uniplaces
;
Wimdu
.
Does the University offer a Portuguese course for international students?
Yes, there is a
Course of Portuguese as Foreign Language
. This course is available in 4 types of classes:
Individual lessons
(the student arranges the schedule with the teacher according to their availability);
Semester Group lessons
(56 study classes + 8 hours for other activities);
30 hours intensive course
(2 weeks);
Online summer course
(month of July).
If you have any questions about this course, please contact:
cursoportugues@fcsh.unl.pt
.
Challenge “Business Intelligence & Analytics for Hospitality & Tourism"
The Business Intelligence and Analytics for Hospitality and Tourism Postgraduate Students are invited to solve a business problem, based on data science. Watch the resume of the two first editions.
The Business Intelligence and Analytics for Hospitality and Tourism Postgraduate Students are invited to solve a business problem, based on data science. Watch the resume of the two first editions.
2
/
2
Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos.
Play video
Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos.
Play video
Rui Coelho
Managing Partner | Welcome Hospitality Management, Lda
Mónica Neto
Revenue Manager | ECS Capital
Gyllcymar Vieira da Silva
Data Scientist & BI Consultant | Amaris
2
/
3
The experience gained in the postgraduate course in Business Intelligence and Analytics for Hospitality and Tourism focuses on using data to find solutions, teaching and monitoring technological tools, and addressing the digital transformation process that society is involved in. This training is the basis for me to explore and understand new dimensions in the field of analysis and demonstration of data and technological processes.
I am sure that I will be able to use this content to improve processes and products in my company as well as with clients.
The experience as a NOVA IMS student was exceptional. The environment is pleasantly conducive to the acquisition of new skills due to the quality of the teaching staff, the facilities, and the successive events that the university promotes to discuss current topics.
NOVA IMS was my choice when I made the decision to take a new direction in my career and specialize in Data Science.
Through this institution, I had access to a highly qualified faculty and very enriching experiences, with a good harmony between theory and practice.

