Master's Program in Clinical Research Management
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Master Degree Program in Clinical Research Management
Developed in partnership with NOVA IMS,
NOVA Medical School (NMS|FCM)
,
National School of Public Health (ENSP-NOVA)
and
Universidade de Aveiro (UA)
, the Master degree Program in Clinical Research Management aims to
train highly qualified human resources to enable clinical research
in health care facilities, universities, academic centers, biobanks, pharmaceutical, and healthcare technology companies, clinical research organizations, and others. The training and professionalization of the structures and teams that support Clinical Research improve the quality and increase the performance and competitiveness of Research Teams. This is the goal in which MEGIC focuses its strategy.
This program includes an internship into a real working environment, in order to allow the development of the competencies defined for this study cycle.
The 7
th
edition (2024/2025) will be held in Lisbon at Faculdade Ciências Médicas | Nova Medical School.
The written contents will all be available in the English language. The interaction with the students will be done in the Portuguese language.
Partner Entities
National School of Public Health
NOVA Medical School
Universidade de Aveiro
Loading...
resumo do conteudo da tabela
Curricular
Unit
Program
Annual Prize
Value
caption text
Format
Working Hours
Length and ECTS
4 semesters (120 ECTS)
Attendance
Twice a week
Start Date
September 2024
Who is it for?
This Master Degree Program is aimed at:
Graduates in the area of Life Sciences and Health (Pharmaceutical Sciences, Medicine, Veterinary Medicine, Dental Medicine, Biomedical Sciences, Biology, Nursing, Microbiology, Biochemistry, Biotechnology, etc.);
Holders of a foreign higher academic degree, conferred following a 1
st
cycle of studies organized in those areas, according to the principles of the Bologna Process by a State adhering to this Process;
Holders of a foreign higher academic degree in those areas, that is recognized as meeting the objectives of a degree by the Scientific Councils of the Faculties / University involved;
Holders of an academic, scientific or professional
curriculum
that is recognized as attesting the capacity to carry out this cycle of studies, by the Scientific Councils of the Faculties / University involved.

---

Admissions and fees
The Admissions' Jury Panel is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.
Tuition fee
The tuition fee is:
Portuguese Students: €2.750/year;
International Students: €5.500/year.
Selection criteria
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic, scientific and professional curriculum of the candidate. An interview and/or written test may be conducted as a complementary criterion.
See the notice
here.
How to apply
To complete the application, the applicant must register, fill the form in
www.nms.unl.pt
(Education > Masters > Master in Clinical Research Management >
Application guide
> 1. Link 'Efetuar registo').
Application fee
The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period.