<Introduction>

The Master's Degree Program in Data-Driven Marketing, with a specialization in Digital Marketing and Analytics, is aimed at marketing professionals who want to
obtain skills in Digital Marketing and Web Analytics
, using the most advanced methodologies for collecting, analyzing and processing data to support decision making in Web Marketing.
This specialization provides a solid foundation to meet the new marketing challenges, which allows building a strategic and integrated customer vision - online and offline - and contributes to improving the decision-making process in companies.
This program is ranked, for the 3
rd
time in a row, as
the best program in E-Business and Digital Marketing in
Portugal
and the 3
rd
best in
Western Europe
by Eduniversal, an international agency that publishes the annual ranking of the best MBA.
This program is held during working hours and is aimed at young graduates and professionals who intend to study on a full-time basis.  It is also available on an
after working hours format (after 6.30 p.m.).
The 1
st
year of the Master’s corresponds to the Postgraduate Program in Digital Marketing and Analytics
–  for more information about the Postgraduate Program, click
here
.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025
.
Support and funding
https://recuperarportugal.gov.pt/
Length and ECTS
4 semesters (120 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times a week
Start Date
September 2025
EDUNIVERSAL
This program is ranked, for the 3
rd
time in a row, as the
best program in E-Business and Digital Marketing in
Portugal
and the 3
rd
best in
Western Europe
by Eduniversal.
Learn more here
<Goals>
The goal of this program is to train technical staff and managers to:
Understand Digital Marketing and its characteristics;
Understand the operating principles of Digital Marketing and Internet Social Media, as well the methodologies for its use in creating value for business;
Understand and be able to apply analytical Social Media techniques;
Understand the principles and metrics of Web Analytics;
Master the techniques of Search Engine Marketing, including AdWords campaign management and the development of Search Engine Optimization (SEO) strategy.
Program Coordinator
Paulo Rita
Full Professor
prita@novaims.unl.pt

<Entry requirements>
The Admissions' Jury Panel of NOVA IMS is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.
3rd  Application phase
From March 10th to April 10th, 2025.
To enter this program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Hold a bachelor’s degree in a compatible field (completed by September 2025);
Be proficient in English (spoken and written).
How to apply and selection process
To apply, you need to access the NOVA IMS' Applications Portal and follow these steps:
Fill in the form available in the user area, namely:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae (this is the only mandatory document for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree. Please note that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month;
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.

<Admissions and Fees>
Application fee
The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period, non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.
Tuition Fee
The tuition fee of this master degree program is:
€6.000 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country: €4.100 corresponds to the 1st year and €1.900 to the 2nd year;
€7.500 for applicants of other nationalities: €4.900 corresponds to the 1st year and €2.600 to the 2nd year. 
Tuition fee payment dates
The tuition fee of this master program can be paid in two or in six installments:
Payment in two installments:
1st: September 25th to 30th, 2025 (100% of the tuition fee of the 1st year);
2nd: September 25th to 30th, 2026 (100% of the tuition fee of the 2nd year).
Payment in six installments:
1st: September 25th to 30th, 2025 (25% of the tuition fee of the 1st year);
2nd: November 25th to 30th, 2025 (25% of the tuition fee of the 1st year);
3rd: February 22nd to 28th, 2026 (25% of the tuition fee of the 1st year);
4th: April 25th to 30th, 2026 (25% of the tuition fee of the 1st year);
5th: September 25th to 30th, 2026 (50% of the tuition fee of the 2nd year);
6th: February 22nd to 28th, 2027 (50% of the tuition fee of the 2nd year).
Registration fee
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment, the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee (around one week after the admission result announcement), deductible in this master program's tuition fee, non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:
€1.250 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€2.500 for applicants of other nationalities, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration, students should make the following payments:
€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1,40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
<Discounts>
Financial discount: students who choose to pay the tuition fee in two installments have a 2,5% discount on the payable amount.
NOVA IMS’ alumni who have completed a bachelor's, postgraduate, master's, or doctoral degree at NOVA IMS have a 20% discount on tuition fee, cumulative with the financial discount.
Companies that finance the program to 2 employees, in the same academic year, have a 10% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts.
Companies that finance the program to 3 or more employees, in the same academic year, have a 20% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts.
Members of the Ordem dos Engenheiros – Região Sul, have 15% discount on tuition fees. This discount can be extended to members' spouses and descendants upon presentation of valid documentation. For more information, please contact admissions@novaims.unl.pt. This discount is not cumulative with other financial discounts.