Postgraduate Program in Financial Markets and Risks
Resulting from a partnership between
NOVA Information Management School and ISCTE Executive Education
, the Postgraduate Program of Financial Markets and Risks combines a prestigious teaching staff, that aligns knowledge and scientific rigor with practical experience, current and innovative contents with a strong applied component, in a structured program providing staff at financial sectors
specialized training in the creation, analysis, and assessment of financial instruments,
with a particular focus on derivatives, and the identification and implementation of integrated technical analysis and management of assets, liabilities and financial risks.
The program is designed under the best international standards set by the CFA Institute's Global Body of Investment Knowledge (GBIK), the Financial Risk Manager (FRM) of Global Association of Risk Professionals (GARP) and GARP's Financial Risk Manager (FRM), covering all the key knowledge required for financial system professionals. This Postgraduate Program is accredited as GARP Academic Partner, meaning that GARP recognizes that the program covers at least 70% of the body of knowledge required for the FRM Part I and Part II examinations.
This Postgraduate Program gives
access to the
Master Degree Program in Statistics and Information Management, with a specialization in Risk Analysis and Management
. This Master Program is ranked as
the best Master degree program
in Insurance, Risk and Actuarial Sciences
in
Portugal
and
4
th
best
in the World
by Eduniversal, an international agency that publishes an annual ranking of the best MBA and Master's degrees in the world.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Partner Entity
ISCTE - Executive Education
Format
After Working Hours
Length and ECTS
4 trimesters (60 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times a week
Start Date
September 2025
Who is it for?
This program is aimed at:
Asset and/or Risk managers in Banks and Insurance Companies;
Managers of Investment Funds, Pension Funds or Heritage Managers;
Staff in charge of Capital Markets and Risk Analysis and Management;
Staff in charge of treasury and markets;
Regulators and traders;
Analysts of foreign exchange, currency and capital markets;
Staff in charge of research on stocks and bonds;
Business people wishing to prepare for the Exam FRM Part I;
Consultants and Financial Auditors;
Financial Analysts and Investment Advisors*;
Private investors.
* Students who want to pursue financial analysis and investment advisory activity must inform CMVM and request the registration in accordance with CMVM Regulation No. 12/2018 of 29 January 2019. Due to the entry of CMVM Regulation No. 12/2018, on January 29, 2019, which amended CMVM Regulation No. 2/2007, the possibility of CMVM conferring equivalence to training courses or examinations for Admission to registration of investment advisers and financial analysts has been deleted.
Goals
The main goals of this program are:
Analysis and detailed assessment of the main financial products and instruments, with particular focus on derivatives;
Identification and development of integrated technical analysis and management of several financial risks, whether in terms of their coverage and conduct of speculation and arbitrage transactions;
Development of analytical skills and decision in the management of assets and liabilities, particularly in the management of investment portfolios, treasury, pension funds and management of investment funds;
Development of techniques and processes for financial innovation, notably the development and evaluation of new products, asset classes, and operations.
Program Coordinator
Jorge Miguel Bravo
Associate Professor
jbravo@novaims.unl.pt

Admissions and Fees
The Admissions' Jury Panel of NOVA IMS is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.

4th  Applications Phase
From April 15th and May 15th, 2025.

Entry Requirements
To enter this program, applicants must meet the following requirements:

Hold a bachelor's degree in a compatible field (completed by September 2025);
Be proficient in English (spoken and written).
How to Apply and Selection Process
To apply, you need to access the NOVA IMS' Applications Portal and follow these steps:

Fill in the form available in the user area, namely:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae (this is the only mandatory document for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree. Please note that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month;
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.

Application Fee

The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period, non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.

Tuition Fee
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program is €7.500. Includes the materials prepared by the faculty, coffee break and parking in NOVA IMS campus, in Lisbon.

Registration Fee
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment, the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee (around one week after the admission result announcement), deductible in this postgraduate program's tuition fee, non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:

€1.250 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€2.500 for applicants of other nationalities, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration, students should make the following payments:

€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1,40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
Tuition Fee Payment Dates

The tuition fee of this postgraduate program can be paid in full or in four installments:

Full payment: September 25th to 30th, 2023.
Payment in four installments:
1st September 25th to 30th, 2023 (25% of tuition fee);
2nd November 25th to 30th, 2023 (25% of tuition fee);
3rd February 22nd to 28th, 2024 (25% of tuition fee);
4th April 25th to 30th, 2024 (25% of tuition fee).
Discounts

Financial discount: students who choose to pay the tuition fee in a single payment have a 2,5% discount on the payable amount;
Alumni who have completed a bachelor's, postgraduate, master degree, or a doctoral Programs at NOVA IMS, ISCTE Executive Education and ISCTE-IUL, from a different program of the one they will attend, have a 10% discount on the tuition fee, cumulative with the financial discount;
Companies that finance the program to 2 employees, in the same academic year, have a 10% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts;
Companies that finance the program to 3 or more employees, in the same academic year, have a 20% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts.
Members of the Ordem dos Engenheiros – Região Sul, have 15% discount on tuition fees. This discount can be extended to members' spouses and descendants upon presentation of valid documentation. For more information, please contact admissions@novaims.unl.pt. This discount is not cumulative with other financial discounts.
