<Introduction>

Developed in partnership with the
Inspectorate General of Finance – Portuguese Audit Authority (IGF),
the postgraduate program in Financial and Budgetary Management and Control aims to empower participants with a set of competencies in the area of management and financial control, which enable the
development of new information management strategies relevant to the performance of functions in the financial and budgetary sphere
.
This program is focused on scientific and professional development in financial and budgetary management, with the intention of providing a solid theoretical-practical training for professionals working in this area, both in public and private entities. It also aims to address the
most recent developments in the areas of management, control and financial reporting
, with the aim of transmitting an integrated view of these important functional areas through
integrated and interdisciplinary training,
including the analysis and requirements of accounting and internal control systems, as well as the importance of the existence of procedures to enable adequate management control.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Partner Entity
Inspeção-Geral de Finanças – Portuguese Audit Authority (IGF)
Format
Working Hours
Length and ECTS
2 semesters (60 ECTS)
Attendance
Once a week
Start Date
September
2025
Who is it for?
The Postgraduate Program in Financial and Budgetary Management and Control is aimed at staff and professionals in the financial and budgetary management area wishing to deepen their competences in the functional areas of management, auditing, financial reporting and control, including the analysis and requirements of accounting and internal control systems, as well as the development of procedures to enable appropriate management control.

NOVA IMS' Program Coordinator
Pedro Simões Coelho
Full Professor
psc@novaims.unl.pt
<Admissions and fees>
The Admissions' Jury Panel of NOVA IMS is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.
3
rd
Applications phase
From
March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Entry requirements
Hold a bachelor's degree in a compatible area (completed until September 2025).
How to apply and selection process
To apply, you need to access the
NOVA IMS' Applications Portal
and follow these steps:
Fill in the form available in the user area, namely
:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae
(this
is the only mandatory document
for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree.
Please note
that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month;
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying
to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee
. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.
<Application fee>
The value of the application fee is €51. The application will only be deemed to be submitted after payment of the application fee within the stipulated period. The fee is non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission to the program.
Registration fees
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment, the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee (around one week after the admission result announcement), deductible in this postgraduate program's tuition fee, non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:
€1.250 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€2.500 for applicants of other nationalities, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration, students should make the following payments:
€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1.40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
Tuition fee
The tuition fees for:
• Applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country:
€4.100 for installment payments;
€4.000 for payment in full;
€3.300 for NOVA IMS' Alumni (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Master Degree and Doctoral Programs) from a different program of the one they will attend.
• Applicants of other nationalities:
€4.900 for installment payments;
€4.800 for payment in full;
€3.900 for NOVA IMS' Alumni (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Master Degree and Doctoral Programs) from a different program of the one they will attend.
• Companies:
€3.500 per student for companies financing the program for 2 employees and members of the Ordem dos Engenheiros – Região Sul (the discount can be extended to members' spouses and descendants upon presentation of valid documentation);
€3.100 per student for companies that finance the program for at least 3 employees.
Tuition payment dates
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program can be paid in full or in four installments:
Full payment: October 25
th
to 31
st
, 2025.
Payment in four installments:
1
st
. September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025 (25% of tuition fee);
2
nd
. November 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025 (25% of tuition fee);
3
rd
. February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
4
th.
April 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee).