Postgraduate Program Enterprise Data Science & Analytics
Developed in partnership with Microsoft, the Postgraduate Program in Enterprise Data Science & Analytics will present the methodologies and tools that will transform data into information, on which enterprises can base strategic information on entering new markets, launching new product or service lines, optimizing processes, transforming business models and, generally, competing in a market increasingly driven by data-driven decisions. This program aims to qualify professionals in the use of big data and machine learning methodologies and tools.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Partner Entity
Microsoft
Format
After Working Hours
Length and ECTS
2 semesters
(60 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times
a week
Start Date
February 2026
EDUNIVERSAL
Ranked among the best in
the best program in Big Data Management in
Portugal
and the 3
rd
best in the
World
by Eduniversal, an international agency that publishes the annual ranking of the best MBA and Master programs in the world.
Who is it for?
This program is aimed at professionals interested in deepening their knowledge in data science and advanced analytics, as well as in the creation of predictive models and their practical application in enterprise environments. It aims to tackle the shortage of highly qualified professionals in this field, with one of the highest growths in the current market of information systems.
Goals
The main goal of this program is to train technical staff to use Big Data and Machine Learning tools and methodologies in the:
Exploration and transformation of data;
Creation of data models and data visualization;
Application of statistical methods to data;
Application of data science methodologies;
Implementation and validation of Machine Learning models;
Application of data science techniques to common scenarios in enterprise environments.

---

Program Coordinator
Roberto Henriques
Associate Professor
roberto@novaims.unl.pt
Henrique Carreiro
Invited Assistant Professor
hcarreiro@novaims.unl.pt
Admissions and fees
The Admissions' Jury Panel of NOVA IMS is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.
2
nd
application phase
From
March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Entry Requirements
To enter this program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Hold a bachelor's degree in a compatible field (completed by January 2026);
Be proficient in English (spoken and written).
How to Apply and Selection Process
To apply, you need to access the
NOVA IMS' Applications Portal
and follow these steps:
Fill in the form available in the user area, namely
:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae
(this
is the only mandatory document
for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree.
Please note
that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month;
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying
to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee
. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.
Application Fee
The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period, non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.
Tuition fee
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program is:
€ 5.100 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€ 6.100 for applicants of other nationalities.
For applications submitted until April 10
th
, a
€200 discount
will be applied to the tuition fee. There are special discount conditions and various payment methods available.
Tuition Fee Payment Dates
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program can be paid in full or in four installments:
Full payment: February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2026.
Payment in four installments:
1
st
February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
2
nd
April 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
3
rd
September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
4
th
November 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee).
Registration fee
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment, the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee (around one week after the admission result announcement), deductible in this postgraduate program's tuition fee, non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:
€1.250 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€2.500 for applicants of other nationalities, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration, students should make the following payments:
€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1.40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
Discounts
Financial discount: students who choose to pay the tuition fee in a single payment have a 2,5% discount on the payable amount;
NOVA IMS’ alumni who have completed a bachelor's, postgraduate, master's, or doctoral degree at NOVA IMS have a 20% discount on tuition fee, cumulative with the financial discount;
Companies that finance the program to at least 2 employees, in the same academic year, have a 10% discount on the tuition
fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts;
Companies that finance the program to 3 or more employees, in the same academic year, have a 20% discount on the tuition
fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts;
Participants from Microsoft have a 20% discount, not cumulative with other discounts.
Members of the Ordem dos Engenheiros – Região Sul, have 15% discount on tuition fees. This discount can be extended to members' spouses and descendants upon presentation of valid documentation. For more information, please contact admissions@novaims.unl.pt.
This discount is not cumulative with other financial discounts.