<Introduction>
Postgraduate Program in Business Intelligence
The globalizing and ever-changing environment in which businesses operate has promoted, as a critical success factor for business, the ability to leverage data and digital transformation to manage information and knowledge in organizations.
The Postgraduate Program in Business Intelligence aims to train experts and managers able to design, build and use business intelligence and analytics processes to support organizational decision making and knowledge management, inducing value creation and promoting its operational and strategic excellence. This program is aimed at managers looking for added value provided from data warehouses of the organizations, and technical staff who work in BI initiatives, including the processes of data warehousing, business analytics and data visualization.
This Postgraduate Program gives access to the
Master Degree Program in Information Management, with a specialization in Business Intelligence
, which is ranked, for the 6
th
time in a row, as the best Master Degree Program in Business Intelligence and Strategy in the
World
by Eduniversal, an international agency that publishes an annual ranking of the best MBA and Master degree programs in the world.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Format
After working hours
Length and ECTS
2 semesters (60 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times a
week
Start Date
September 2025
EDUNIVERSAL
Ranked as the
best Program
in Business Intelligence and Strategy
in the
World
by Eduniversal, for the 6
th
time in a row.
<Who is it for?>
The Postgraduate Program in Knowledge Management and Business Intelligence is aimed at graduates in a compatible field such as: Management, Engineering, Economics, Marketing, Statistics and Information Management, Sociology or Psychology; or another area of knowledge if qualified with the appropriate professional experience in information management activities. Among the potential targets of this postgraduate program, we highlight those who have responsibilities in Knowledge Management and Business Intelligence, Data Warehouses Managers, as well as managers and leaders looking for added value provided from data warehouses of the organizations in which they develop their activity. This Postgraduate Program also aims at technical staff and managers that need to work together to launch BI initiatives.
Goals
The goal of this program is to train technical staff and managers to:
Introduce the principles of Knowledge Management to improve organizational efficiency and effectiveness, in order to promote the competitiveness of organizations;
Understand the process of Business Intelligence and its role in creating value for the business;
Use analytical applications to monitor organizations' performance and visualization tools;
Understand the purpose and meet the main techniques of Data Mining and Predictive Analytics;
Identify the key indicators of the analytical applications in a business context.

---

NOVA IMS' Program Coordinator
Fernando Bação
Full Professor
bacao@novaims.unl.pt
<Admissions and fees>
The Admissions' Jury Panel of NOVA IMS is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.
3
rd
Application phase
From
March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Entry requirements
To enter this program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Hold a bachelor's degree in a compatible field (completed by September 2025);
Be proficient in English (spoken and written).
How to apply and selection process
To apply, you need to access the
NOVA IMS' Applications Portal
and follow these steps:
Fill in the form available in the user area, namely
:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae
(this
is the only mandatory document
for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree.
Please note
that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month.
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying
to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee
. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.
Application fee
The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period, non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.
Registration fee
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment, the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee (around one week after the admission result announcement), deductible in this postgraduate program's tuition fee, non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:
€1.250 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€2.500 for applicants of other nationalities, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration, students should make the following payments:
€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1,40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
Tuition fee
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program is:
€ 4.200, for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€ 4.900, for applicants of other nationalities.
Tuition fee payment dates
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program can be paid in full or in four installments:
Full payment: September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025.
Payment in four installments:
1
st
: September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025 (25% of tuition fee);
2
nd
: November 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025 (25% of tuition fee);
3
rd
: February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
4
th
: April 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee).
Discounts
Financial discount: students who choose to pay the tuition fee in a single payment have a 2,5% discount on the payable amount.
NOVA IMS’ alumni who have completed a bachelor's, postgraduate, master's, or doctoral degree at NOVA IMS have a 20% discount on tuition fee, cumulative with the financial discount.
Companies that finance the program to 2 employees, in the same academic year, have a 10% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts.
Companies that finance the program to 3 or more employees, in the same academic year, have a 20% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts.
Members of the Ordem dos Engenheiros – Região Sul, have 15% discount on tuition fees. This discount can be extended to members' spouses and descendants upon presentation of valid documentation. For more information, please contact admissions@novaims.unl.pt. This discount is not cumulative with other financial discounts.