<Introduction>

The Postgraduate Program in Intelligent Management and Security develops skills to objectively and knowledgeably understand and address the challenges faced by various institutions within the current framework of security, defense, international cooperation, and information culture in the global world. The program provides analytical competencies of various types and presents methodologies to assess, manage, and make decisions in complex international security and defense contexts. These contexts require an understanding of the political, diplomatic, economic, social, and regional frameworks, particularly those arising from risks and new challenges posed by cybersecurity, counterintelligence, Artificial Intelligence, foresight, and scenario planning.
Applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Partner Entities
Instituto da Defesa Nacional
Sistema de Informações da República Portuguesa
Format
After Working Hours
Length and ECTS
2 semesters (60 ECTS)
Attendance
Twice a week
Start Date
February 2026
Who is it for?
This postgraduate program is aimed at students, graduates, or professionals from any scientific field who wish to acquire skills related to security studies and strategic studies, update their knowledge, or explore new perspectives on the dynamics of the current world and its evolving trends, considering current theories and emerging security themes.
Among the potential target audience for this postgraduate program are individuals with responsibilities in the fields of information and security, particularly in information management. Specifically, members of security forces and services, military personnel, public or private sector managers in information management, decision-making support, and competitive intelligence, as well as professionals from private companies, NGOs, and various sectors of public administration.
<Goals>
The goal of this program is to train technical staff and managers to:
Understand the various stages of the information production cycle;
Comprehend and critically analyze the risks, threats, and opportunities arising from today's BANI world (Brittle, Anxious, Nonlinear, and Incomprehensible);
Demonstrate knowledge of intelligence and information gathering, and techniques of data analysis;
Communicate complex issues, clearly and effectively;
Develop key skills to support decision-making, enhanced by the use of Competitive Intelligence and Business processes;
Understand the role of strategic intelligence and the additional challenges posed by cybersecurity, counterintelligence, and Artificial Intelligence, with a focus on foresight.
<Admissions and fees>
2
nd
applications phase
Between
March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025
(only for Portuguese speaking applicants).
Entry Requirements
To enter this program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Hold a bachelor's degree in a compatible field (completed by January 2026);
Be proficient in Portuguese (spoken and written).
This program is taught in Portuguese.
How to Apply and Selection Process
To apply, you need to access the
NOVA IMS' Applications Portal
and follow these steps:
Fill in the form available in the user area, namely
:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae
(this
is the only mandatory document
for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree.
Please note
that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month;
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying
to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee
. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.
<Application Fee>
The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period, non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.
Tuition Fee
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program is:
€ 4.100 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€ 4.900 for applicants of other nationalities.
For applications submitted until April 10
th
, a
€200 discount
will be applied to the tuition fee. There are special discount conditions and various payment methods available.
Tuition fee payment dates
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program can be paid in full or in four installments:
Full payment: February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2026.
Payment in four installments:
1
st
February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
2
nd
April 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
3
rd
September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
4
th
November 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee).
Registration fee
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment, the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee (around one week after the admission result announcement), deductible in this postgraduate program's tuition fee, non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:
€1.250 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€2.500 for applicants of other nationalities, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration, students should make the following payments:
€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1.40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
<Discounts>
Financial discount: students who choose to pay the tuition fee in a single payment have a 2,5% discount on the payable amount;
NOVA IMS’ alumni who have completed a bachelor's, postgraduate, master's, or doctoral degree at NOVA IMS have a 20% discount on tuition fee, cumulative with the financial discount;
Companies that finance the program to at least 2 employees, in the same academic year, have a 10% discount on the tuition
fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts;
Companies that finance the program to 3 or more employees, in the same academic year, have a 20% discount on the tuition
fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts;
Members of the Ordem dos Engenheiros – Região Sul, have 15% discount on tuition fees. This discount can be extended to members' spouses and descendants upon presentation of valid documentation. For more information, please contact admissions@novaims.unl.pt. This discount is not cumulative with other financial discounts.
15% discount, not cumulative with other discounts, for employees of:
Ministry of Foreign Affairs;
Ministry of Internal Affairs;
Ministry of National Defence;
Ministry of Economy;
Ministry of Finance;
Ministry of Justice.