Postgraduate Program in Digital Transformation
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Postgraduate Program in Digital Transformation
The
Postgraduate Program in Digital Transformation
recognizes the significance of digital transformation in today's business world. The program aims to strengthen NOVA IMS's training offering in this area by focusing on the exploration of technological advancements and processes that can help organizations enhance their competitive advantage through the transformation or development of their business models. As digital transformation becomes increasingly crucial for companies to remain relevant and competitive, the importance of training in this area cannot be overstated.
By participating in this program, professionals will gain a deeper understanding and competences of how to leverage technology to drive business growth and create new opportunities.
This Postgraduate Program gives access to the
Master's Degree in Information Management, with a specialization in Digital Transformation
.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025
. To apply, click
here
.
Format
After working hours
Length and ECTS
2 semesters (60 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times a
week
Start Date
September 2025
Who is it for?
Digital transformation is an ongoing process that involves using technology to fundamentally change the way organizations operate and deliver value to customers. This Program is designed for individuals who want to gain a comprehensive understanding of digital transformation and its impact on various industries. Whether you're a recent graduate in the fields of engineering, management, or technology or an experienced professional looking to expand your knowledge, this specialization will provide you with the skills and insights you need to help organizations navigate the challenges and opportunities of digital transformation.
Through a combination of hands-on projects, expert lectures, and interactive discussions, you'll explore cutting-edge technologies and processes that are driving digital transformation and learn how to assess their potential impact on your organization.
By the end of the program, you'll have a deep understanding of how digital transformation is shaping the future of work and be well-equipped to play a leading role in your organization's journey towards a more digital future.
Goals
The goal of this program is to train technical staff and managers to:
Train technicians and managers capable of formulating and evaluating digital transformation processes in organizations;
Present solutions aimed at increasing productivity and efficiency in organizations, with efficient and secure data management.

---

Length, timetable and exams
Length
The program lasts 2 semesters. The classes will start in September 2025, ending in June 2026, and run after working hours (after 6:30 p.m.), 2 to 3 times a week.
Timetable
See the timetable for the Mandatory Course Units
here
and the Elective Course Units
here
for the academic year 2024-25.
The schedule for the 2025-26 academic year will be published in March 2025.
Exams
See the exams calendar
here
for the academic year 2024-2025.
Admissions and fees
The Admissions' Jury Panel of NOVA IMS is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.
3
rd
Application phase
From
March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Entry requirements
To enter this program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Hold a bachelor's degree in a compatible field (completed by September 2025);
Be proficient in English (spoken and written).
How to apply and selection process
To apply, you need to access the
NOVA IMS' Applications Portal
and follow these steps:
Fill in the form available in the user area, namely
:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae
(this
is the only mandatory document
for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree.
Please note
that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month.
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying
to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee
. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.
Application fee
The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period, non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.
Registration fee
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment, the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee (around one week after the admission result announcement), deductible in this postgraduate program's tuition fee, non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:
€1.250 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€2.500 for applicants of other nationalities, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration, students should make the following payments:
€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1,40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
Tuition fee
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program is:
€ 4.200, for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€ 4.900, for applicants of other nationalities.
Tuition fee payment dates
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program can be paid in full or in four installments:
Full payment: September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025.
Payment in four installments:
1
st
: September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025 (25% of tuition fee);
2
nd
: November 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025 (25% of tuition fee);
3
rd
: February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
4
th
: April 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee).
Discounts
Financial discount: students who choose to pay the tuition fee in a single payment have a 2,5% discount on the payable amount.
NOVA IMS’ alumni who have completed a bachelor's, postgraduate, master's, or doctoral degree at NOVA IMS have a 20% discount on tuition fee, cumulative with the financial discount.
Companies that finance the program to 2 employees, in the same academic year, have a 10% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts.
Companies that finance the program to 3 or more employees, in the same academic year, have a 20% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts.
Members of the Ordem dos Engenheiros – Região Sul, have 15% discount on tuition fees. This discount can be extended to members' spouses and descendants upon presentation of valid documentation. For more information, please contact admissions@novaims.unl.pt. This discount is not cumulative with other financial discounts.