Postgraduate Program in Geospatial Intelligence
The Geospatial Intelligence Certificate,
accredited by the
United States Geospatial Intelligence Foundation (USGIF)
, provides education and training in scientific concepts, methods and key geospatial technologies, used in the solution of global problems of security and defense, including emergency and civil protection, natural disasters, humanitarian crisis, environmental risks, military operations, political action in general, public health, education, transport, telecommunications, management dilemmas of heritage, as well as responding to economic, social and cultural challenges, among many others.
The main objective of this course is to train technicians capable of applying knowledge of image processing and remote sensing, geographic information science, informatics and processes analytical tools to geospatial intelligence, as well as selecting, using, synthesizing and demonstrating the techniques, skills and tools needed to solve GEOINT problems that, on a day-to-day basis, affect and stimulate the society in general.
The completion of this postgraduate degree guarantees access to the
Master Degree in Geographic Information Systems and Science
.
Accredited by the United States Geospatial Intelligence Foundation (USGIF)
Partner Entities
Academia Militar
Esri Portugal
Centro de Informação Geoespacial do Exército
United States Geospatial Intelligence Foundation
Format
After Working Hours
Length and ECTS
2 semesters
(60 ECTS)
Attendance
2 times a week
Start Date
September 2024
Who is it for?
This Postgraduate Program, with access to the GEOINT Certificate and the USGIF Certificate, is for anyone who desires to work in or who already is working in GEOINT fields, such as emergency and disaster response, environmental change, national and corporate defense and security.
This certificate is especially relevant to individuals in:
Armed Forces and Security Forces and Services working with geospatial information;
National and international humanitarian and civil protection agencies and organizations, as well as non-governmental organizations operating in geopolitically deprived and/or conflict regions;
Organizations operating in the fields of security, defense, and space;
Studies and assessments of environmental and climate changes, including land use and physical conditions of the Earth's surface (impacts of drought, fire, pests, coastal/maritime conditions, and natural disasters);
Government agencies in the areas of internal administration, statistics, international cooperation, justice, economy, planning and management, health, education, and information services.
Goals
According to USGIF accreditation criteria, GEOINT graduates know how to:
Apply and develop knowledge of image processing and remote sensing, geographic information science, computing and analytical processes to geospatial intelligence;
Investigate, collect, and interpret data that leads to complex analyses;
Promote a network that unifies the National GEOINT Community (National GEOINT Network), aiming at the development and innovation in this knowledge area;
Work in a collaborative environment;
Select, use, synthesize, and demonstrate the techniques, skills and tools necessary to solve geospatial intelligence problems.

Program Coordinator
Marco Painho
Full Professor
painho@novaims.unl.pt
Admissions and fees
The Admissions' Jury Panel of NOVA IMS is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.
Entry Requirements
To enter this program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Hold a bachelor's degree in a compatible field
(completed by September 2025);
Be proficient in English (spoken and written).
How to Apply and Selection Process
To apply, you need to access the
NOVA IMS' Applications Portal
and follow these steps:
Fill in the form available in the user area, namely
:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae
(this
is the only mandatory document
for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree.
Please note
that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month;
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying
to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee
. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.
Application Fee
The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period, non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.
Tuition Fee
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program is €4.100.
Tuition Fee Payment Dates
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program can be paid in full or in four installments:
Full payment: September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2024.
Payment in four installments:
1
st
: September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2024 (25% of tuition fee);
2
nd
: November 25
th
to 30
th
, 2024 (25% of tuition fee);
3
rd
: February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2025 (25% of tuition fee);
4
th
: April 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025 (25% of tuition fee).
Registration Fee
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment, the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee (around one week after the admission result announcement), deductible in this postgraduate program's tuition fee, non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:
€1.250 for applicants from EU and Portuguese-speaking countries;
€2.500 for applicants from other countries, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration, students should make the following payments:
€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1,40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
Discounts
Financial discount: students who choose to pay the tuition fee in a single payment have a 2,5% discount on the payable amount;
NOVA IMS’ alumni who have completed a bachelor's, postgraduate, master's, or doctoral degree at NOVA IMS have a 20% discount on tuition fee, cumulative with the financial discount;
Companies that finance the program to at least 2 employees, in the same academic year, have a 10% discount on the tuition
fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts;
Companies that finance the program to 3 or more employees, in the same academic year, have a 20% discount on the tuition
fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts;
Members of the Ordem dos Engenheiros – Região Sul, have 15% discount on tuition fees. This discount can be extended to members' spouses and descendants upon presentation of valid documentation. For more information, please contact admissions@novaims.unl.pt. This discount is not cumulative with other financial discounts.