Postgraduate Program in Statistical Systems,
with a specialization in Official Statistics
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Postgraduate Program in Statistical Systems, with a specialization in Official Statistics
The Postgraduate Program in Statistical Systems, with a specialization in Official Statistics,
accredited by European Statistical System
(ESS) with the EMOS (European Master of Official Statistics) seal, offers
specialized training in official statistics
, particularly in the
production of statistics that cover the statistical activity of National Statistical Systems (NSS)
and the international organizations of which Portugal is a member.
This programs aims at endowing technical sta­ff and managers who work in the scope of NSS, either as producers or as analysts or users of statistical information, the knowledge and skills crucial to the exercise of their activity.
The Postgraduate Program lasts 2 semesters. However, students may attend the program in part-time and complete it within a stipulated period of 2 academic years.  The classes are held in the classroom or through videoconference.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025
. To apply, click
here
.
Format
After working hours
Length and ECTS
2 semesters (60 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times a
week
Start Date
September 2025
Partner Entities
European Master in Official Statistics
Loading...
resumo do conteudo da tabela
Curricular
Unit
Program
Annual Prize
Value
caption text
Who is it for?
This program is aimed to employees of the organizations that take part of the National Statistical System of Portugal and the Portuguese-speaking countries. It is also addressed to everyone who is interested in official statistics, including the employees of any other organizations with interests in this field and the general public.
Goals
The goal of this program is to train technical staff and managers to:
Manage and lead the process of producing official statistics;
Develop techniques and methodologies of data collection;
Master the tools and processes used for the storage, organization, and access to information in an entity responsible for the compilation of statistics;
Apply statistical and computational methodologies and exploration and information analysis tools, to produce official statistics that can add value to decision making;
Communicate results in written or oral form, adapting them to the level and specific interests of the audience.

---

Admissions and fees
The Admissions' Jury Panel of NOVA IMS is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.
3
rd
Application phase
From
March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Entry requirements
The enter this program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Hold a bachelor's degree in a compatible field (completed by September 2025);
Be proficient in English (spoken and written).
How to apply and selection process
To apply, you need to access the
NOVA IMS' Applications Portal
and follow these steps:
Fill in the form available in the user area, namely
:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae
(this
is the only mandatory document
for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree.
Please note
that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month;
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying
to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee
. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.
Application fee
The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period, non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.
Registration fee
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment, the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee (around one week after the admission result announcement), deductible in this postgraduate program's tuition fee, non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:
€1.250 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€2.500 for applicants of other nationalities, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration, students should make the following payments:
€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1,40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
Tuition fee
The tuition fee of this Postgraduate program is €4.900. The fee for each individual course unit is €750.
Tuition fee payment dates
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program can be paid in full or in four installments:
Full payment: September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025.
Payment in four installments:
1
st
. September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025 (25% of tuition fee);
2
nd
. November 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025 (25% of tuition fee);
3
rd
. February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
4
th.
April 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee).
Discounts
Financial discount: students who choose to pay the tuition fee in a single payment have a 2,5% discount on the payable amount.
NOVA IMS’ alumni who have completed a bachelor's, postgraduate, master's, or doctoral degree at NOVA IMS have a 20% discount on tuition fee, cumulative with the financial discount.
Companies that finance the program to 2 or more employees, in the same academic year, have a 10% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts.
Members of the Ordem dos Engenheiros – Região Sul, have 15% discount on tuition fees. This discount can be extended to members' spouses and descendants upon presentation of valid documentation. For more information, please contact admissions@novaims.unl.pt. This discount is not cumulative with other financial discounts.