<Introduction>
Postgraduate Program in Data Science for Finance
The Postgraduate Diploma in Data Science for Finance is an internationally innovative training program that offers
a quantitative and analytical approach to finance
, aimed at professionals in the financial sector seeking a more analytical approach to the areas of valuation of financial assets, trading, risk management, financial engineering, predictive models, financial computing, among others. It also provides an understanding of the potential transformations in the financial industry resulting from the adoption of blockchain technology by Fintech & InsurTech. The program prepares senior management for successful careers in the areas of investment banking, asset management, hedge funds and investment advisory, risk management, sales and trading, hedge funds, financial engineering, financial technology, and consulting/advisory.
This Postgraduate Program gives
access to the
Master degree program in Statistics and Information Management, with a specialization in Risk Analysis and Management
.
This Master program is ranked as the
best Master degree program
in Risk Management in Portugal and 2
nd
best in the
World
by Eduniversal
, an international agency that publishes an annual ranking of the best MBA and Master degrees in the world.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Format
After Working Hours
Length and ECTS
4 trimesters (60 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times a week
Start Date
September 2025
Who is it for?
This program is geared towards technically minded graduates wanting a deeper, more analytical study of finance, risk management and financial engineering that is found in general finance programs. Candidates with a first or upper second Class honors degree (or international equivalent) from a recognized university in a highly quantitative subject such as economics, mathematics, statistics, engineering, computation, science, or management pursuing a successful career in finance are the main target of this program. Work experience is not essential, but you are strongly recommended to undertake relevant internships and to share your expertise in class.
Graduates are typically employed in investment banking, asset management, hedge funds and investment advisory, risk management, sales and trading, hedge funds, financial engineering, financial technology, and consulting/advisory.
<Goals>
This Postgraduate program has as specific objectives the training of professionals in the financial sector:
Developing Data-Driven pricing & risk management models of both plain vanilla and exotic financial securities that compete with traditional model-based approaches;
The development of Data-Driven models that explain the dynamics of financial asset prices;
The implementation and validation of data models, machine learning and deep learning methods in finance;
Understanding the potential transformations in the financial industry resulting from the adoption of blockchain technology to Fintech & InsurTech;
The acquisition and development of skills in the most popular programming languages in the financial industry (R, Python);
The development of Predictive Analysis and Trading models, Sentiment Analysis, Financial Fraud Detection techniques, Credit Rating models, Insurance pricing models, Customer Segmentation methods.

Program Coordinator
Jorge Miguel Bravo
Associate Professor
jbravo@novaims.unl.pt
<Admissions and fees>
The Admissions' Jury Panel of NOVA IMS is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.
3
rd
Applications phase
From
March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Entry requirements
To enter this program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Hold a bachelor’s degree in a compatible field (completed by September 2025);
Be proficient in English (spoken and written).
How to apply and selection process
To apply, you need to access the
NOVA IMS' Applications Portal
and follow these steps:
Fill in the form available in the user area, namely
:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae
(this
is the only mandatory document
for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree.
Please note
that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month;
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying
to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee
. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.
Application fee
The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period, non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.
Registration fee
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment (around one week after the admission result announcement), the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee, deductible in this postgraduate program's tuition fee, non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:
€1.250 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€2.500 for applicants of other nationalities, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration, the students should make the following payments:
€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1,40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
Tuition fee
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program is:
€5.100 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€6.100 for applicants of other nationalities.
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program includes all handouts and teaching materials used in class as well as the coffee breaks on the days of classes.
Tuition fee payment dates
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program can be paid in full or in four installments:
Full payment: September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025.
Payment in four installments:
September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025 (25% of the tuition fee);
November 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025 (25% of the tuition fee);
February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2026 (25% of the tuition fee);
April 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of the tuition fee).
Discounts
Financial discount: students who choose to pay the tuition fee in a single payment have a 2,5% discount on the payable amount.
NOVA IMS’ alumni who have completed a bachelor's, postgraduate, master's, or doctoral degree at NOVA IMS have a 20% discount on tuition fee, cumulative with the financial discount;
Companies that finance the program to 2 employees, in the same academic year, have a 10% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts.
Companies that finance the program to 3 or more employees, in the same academic year, have a 20% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts.
Members of the Ordem dos Engenheiros – Região Sul, have 15% discount on tuition fees. This discount can be extended to members' spouses and descendants upon presentation of valid documentation. For more information, please contact admissions@novaims.unl.pt.
This discount is not cumulative with other financial discounts.