<Introduction>

The Postgraduate program in Data Science for Marketing aims to fill a gap in the postgraduate training of marketing professionals who need to gain new skills to be able to
actively participate in the development and application of analytical marketing models.
With the proposed study plan, this program presents an up-to-date structure that combines several areas of marketing with a transversal approach of data science to leverage them.
This program is designed to provide excellent training, articulating key concepts and challenges for marketing decision-making in its multiple strategic, innovation and methodological strands, with
practical data-oriented processing (Data Science & Big Data), Artificial Intelligence (Generative AI & Machine Learning), and social network analysis and consumer behavior.
The versatility in the offer of elective course units also allows reinforcing theoretical and practical knowledge in several related areas, such as:
digital marketing, social media, e-commerce, and search engine optimization
.
This Postgraduate Program
gives access to the Master Degree Program in Data-Driven Marketing
, with a specialization in Data Science for Marketing.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Support and Funding
https://recuperarportugal.gov.pt/
Format
After working hours
Length and ECTS
2 semesters (60 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times a
week
Start Date
September 2025
Who is it for?
This postgraduate program is aimed at managers, technical staff and other professionals who wish to acquire analytical skills in the field of marketing, using the most advanced technologies and methodologies for collecting, analyzing and processing data in the scope of data science, in order to allow making data-driven based decisions.
<Goals>
The main goal of this program is to train marketing professionals to be capable of:
Bridging the gap between marketing and data science, being empowered with the ability to think critically about data, and deriving conclusions from incomplete information;
Knowing how to support marketing decision-making through a practical understanding of the fundamental methods used by data scientists;
Learning data science tools and models and being ready to deploy them in the organization;
Developing the capabilities to load, clean and transform data, and identifying the best models and methodologies to extract meaningful marketing knowledge from different, often heterogeneous and complex data sources;
Understanding the power of Big Data and learning how to achieve business solutions by processing large streams of data in real-time;
Interpreting and communicating data and results using a wide range of real-world marketing examples;
Always being ready to face the challenges of the modern and fast-changing business world.

Program Coordinator
Paulo Rita
Full Professor
prita@novaims.unl.pt
<Admissions and fees>
The Admissions' Jury Panel of NOVA IMS is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.
3
rd
Application phase
From
March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025.
Entry requirements
To enter this program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Hold a bachelor's degree in a compatible field (completed by September 2025);
Be proficient in English (spoken and written).
How to apply and selection process
To apply, you need to access the
NOVA IMS' Applications Portal
and follow these steps:
Fill in the form available in the user area, namely
:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae
(this
is the only mandatory document
for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree.
Please note
that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month.
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying
to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee
. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.
<Application fee>
The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period, non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.
Registration fee
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment, the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee (around one week after the admission result announcement), deductible in this postgraduate program's tuition fee, non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:
€1.250 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€2.500 for applicants of other nationalities, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration, students should make the following payments:
€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1,40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
Tuition fee
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program is:
€ 4.200, for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€ 4.900, for applicants of other nationalities.
Tuition fee payment dates
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program can be paid in full or in four installments:
Full payment: September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025.
Payment in four installments:
1
st
: September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025 (25% of tuition fee);
2
nd
: November 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025 (25% of tuition fee);
3
rd
: February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
4
th
: April 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee).
<Discounts>
Financial discount: students who choose to pay the tuition fee in a single payment have a 2,5% discount on the payable amount.
NOVA IMS’ alumni who have completed a bachelor's, postgraduate, master's, or doctoral degree at NOVA IMS have a 20% discount on tuition fee, cumulative with the financial discount.
Companies that finance the program to 2 employees, in the same academic year, have a 10% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts.
Companies that finance the program to 3 or more employees, in the same academic year, have a 20% discount on the tuition fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts.
Members of the Ordem dos Engenheiros – Região Sul, have 15% discount on tuition fees. This discount can be extended to members' spouses and descendants upon presentation of valid documentation. For more information, please contact admissions@novaims.unl.pt. This discount is not cumulative with other financial discounts.