European Master of Science in Information Systems Management
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
European Master of Science in Information Systems Management
The European Master of Science in Information Systems Management aims at graduates who are willing to
acquire additional information systems management skills
to be applied in their professional field and intend to have a master's double degree diploma from two universities:
M.Sc. in Information Management, with a specialization in Information Systems Management
,
by NOVA Information Management School of Universidade NOVA de Lisboa, Portugal
- Ranked by Eduniversal as the best  Master Program in Information Systems Management in
Western Europe
.
M.Sc. in Business Informatics by School of Economics and Business (SEB LU), of Ljubljana University, Slovenia
- Accredited by AACBS, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business.
Completing the master's degree program will make the student an expert who, as a businessperson or information systems specialist, will be able to directly and creatively manage, advise and participate in the development and application of information systems technologies, manage information systems departments, and manage changes leading to the strategic renewal of businesses based on the restructuring of business processes and application of information technology.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025
. To apply, click
here
.
Partner Entity
Faculty of Economics - University of Ljubljana
Loading...
resumo do conteudo da tabela
Curricular
Unit
Program
Annual Prize
Value
caption text
Format
After Working Hours
Length and ECTS
4 semesters (120 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times a week
Start Date
September 2025
Who is it for?
This program is aimed at graduates in management, engineering, economics, marketing, information management, and professionals in network systems and data communications analysis, computer software engineering (both applications and systems software), network, computer systems and database administration, among others, who are willing to acquire additional Information Systems Management skills to be applied in their professional field.
Goals
The goals of the program are:
Develop the understanding of the strategic benefits in successfully implementing information systems, the process of strategic planning and the evaluation of business needs;
Develop project management and capital budgeting skills to enable activity, program and project costing, control and evaluation;
Develop an appreciation of the impact and management of change caused by the introduction of information systems;
Develop the ability to manage, advise, and participate in the development and application of information resources, and the ability to manage changes towards the strategic renewal of business.

---

Admissions and fees
The Admissions' Jury Panel of NOVA IMS and SEB LU is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.
3
rd
Application phase
From March 10
th
to April 10
th
, 2025.
Entry requirements
To enter this program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Hold a bachelor's degree in a compatible field (completed by September 2025);
Be proficient in English (spoken and written).
How to apply and selection process
To apply, you need to access the
NOVA IMS' Applications Portal
and follow these steps:
Fill in the form available in the user area, namely
:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae
(this
is the only mandatory document
for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree.
Please note
that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month;
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying
to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee
. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.
Application fee
The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period, non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.
Registration fee
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment, the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee (around one week after the admission result announcement), deductible in this program's tuition fee and non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:
€1.250 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€2.500 for applicants of other nationalities, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration (1
st
and 2
nd
years), students should make the following payments at NOVA IMS:
€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1,40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
They also need to pay the enrollment fee and annual school insurance at SEB LU.
Tuition fee and payment dates
The tuition fee is €8.000. Students will have to pay directly to each university the following amounts, within the mentioned dates:
Payment Dates - to pay directly to each School
NOVA IMS
SEB LU
September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2025
€2.000,00
€2.000,00
September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026
(to pay directly to SEB LU for attending 3
rd
Semester)
€2.000,00
February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2027
(to pay directly to NOVA IMS for attending 4
th
Semester)
€2.000,00
Total
€8.000,00
Course Unit
Loading...
modal item
card item