Postgraduate Program in Digital Enterprise Management
en
Education
Programs
Postgraduate Programs and Master Degree Programs
Postgraduate Program in Digital Enterprise Management
Organizations seeking leadership in competitive markets, where digital technologies play a strategic role, need managers and professionals with the skills to manage transformation projects in a holistic and strategic way, beyond mere technological modernization. The postgraduate program in Digital Enterprise Management equips managers and professionals to
master disruptive technologies such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, big data & analytics, the internet of things, 3D printing, and cloud computing
, enabling them to envision new business models, optimize existing processes, and strengthen organizational strategy, ensuring a competitive edge.
Throughout the program, participants acquire both theoretical and practical knowledge, developing the skills to integrate cutting-edge technologies with strategic factors such as organizational culture, change management, human resources development, and value creation through process redefinition. This provides a strategic vision to address the complexities of digital transformation and enhance organizational success.
The Digital Enterprise Management program is recognized as
one of the best in Western Europe for innovation and project management
by Eduniversal, the international agency that annually publishes the ranking of the world’s best master's programs and MBAs.
The applications for this program are open between March 10
th
and April 10
th
, 2025
. To apply, click
here
.
Partner Entities
Google
IDC
SAP
Loading...
resumo do conteudo da tabela
Curricular
Unit
Program
Annual Prize
Value
caption text
Format
After Working Hours
Length and ECTS
2 semesters
(60 ECTS)
Attendance
2 to 3 times
a week
Start Date
February 2026
EDUNIVERSAL
Ranked as one of the
best programs in Western Europe in Innovation and Project Management
, according to Eduniversal
Learn more here
Who is it for?
The Postgraduate Program in Digital Enterprise Management is aimed at managers and professionals who wish to deepen their project management skills in business transformation, based in new digitalization models and information systems. Among the potential candidates we highlight the 1
st
and 2
nd
level managers of medium-sized and big enterprises, systems integrators and consulting companies, and IT and IS professionals.
Goals
Prepare managers to be in charge of the "digital transformation" in their organizations, and become the change drivers in processes, organization and human resources;
Help in the selection and prioritization of the adequate technological solutions and distribution models to accelerate the profitability and productivity in the organizations;
Offer the students clear access to state of the art of reference suppliers of technologies and distribution models that leverage the "digital transformation";
Provide access to digital transformation methodologies, including IDC Digital Transformation MaturityScape, for an assessment of their organizations.
Students and Alumni Testimonials
Paulo Cancela
Service Practice Leader | Unipartner
Tânia Pedro
Business Analyst | Asseco PST
Joaquim Costa Silva
Senior Manager on the IT Digital Transformation & Applications team | PwC
Ana Valente
Business Analyst | Springer Nature
Catarina Guedes Simões
Business Transformation Manager | BOLD by Devoteam
Ivo Bernardo
Partner / Senior Data Scientist | DareData Engineering
João Miguel Salvador
Coordinating Journalist | Expresso
Jorge Barroso
General Director Automotive Solutions | DEKRA Portugal
Manuel Leandro
Service Delivery Manager | Milestone @ REN
Nuno Amaral
Digital Project Management Officer | Galp Energia
Rita Gomes da Silva
Ux Designer, Critical Techworks
1
/
11
Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos.
Play video
Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos.
Play video
The choice of a postgraduate degree in Digital Enterprise Management was a natural one, given that I had been managing projects for several years, but I wanted to improve my skills in the great challenge of Digital Transformation. I couldn't have made a better choice. Despite being very demanding, the support of professors and colleagues has made this postgraduate course in Digital Enterprise Management a real training tool. The DEM postgraduate course at NOVA IMS was undoubtedly very important for improving and implementing new models in program and project management, as well as for the development of my career.
I looked for the Postgraduate Program in Digital Enterprise Management to complement my technical training with management know-how. The group assignnments, in which different case studies from well-known companies are analyzed, allow the creation of a state of alert for the challenges that an organization faces during its digital transformation, which is an asset for those who want to make a difference in a world with an increasingly digital focus.
Choosing the postgraduate program in Digital Enterprise Management at NOVA IMS was a very conscious decision, certain that the acquisition of new skills and knowledge, so necessary for those who work daily with the topics of Digital Transformation within organizations, would come true. The dynamics and networking present between the faculty, partners and colleagues were crucial for this same achievement.
Throughout my academic career, NOVA IMS has provided me with the necessary learning to be a better Data Scientist, with its teaching method focused on the most relevant tools in the market and incorporating the most current and basic themes in its curriculum in the creation of good data analysis and statistics professionals. With a practical approach, focused on problem-solving and an academic environment of excellence, with great proximity between teachers and students, NOVA IMS was a school of enormous importance in my development, the right choice for what would be my professional future.
Choosing the postgraduate program in Digital Enterprise Management of NOVA IMS was the right decision in a context of change within organizations. The digital transformation is a big challenge and this is a great opportunity to reposition the business world and prepare it for tomorrow. Now more than ever: no one expected the future to come so soon and in such a challenging way. The possibility of learning in a practical way and in group, using real business simulations, is an asset in a program like this, created in a prestigious college together with excellent international partners.
Having been a student at NOVA IMS in a postgraduate and Master degree programs was an excellent decision. There is a highly prepared and demanding faculty that, in addition to their professional experience, together with the work carried out with colleagues, allowed me to obtain a level of deep theoretical and practical knowledge in this new world, increasingly computerized, digital and accelerating transformation with business impact. Another great advantage was the increase in the diversified networking, which is very important today. Without a doubt, it was a great experience with a very positive feedback that will help me to be better prepared for the challenges of the present and the future.
The postgraduate program in Digital Enterprise Management of NOVA IMS was my choice to meet the cycle of change where I was. The need to update knowledge, acquire new skills found a solution in NOVA IMS’ rigorous and excellent teaching, where the proximity between teachers and students, the strong connection to the business market, and strategic partnerships, are the pillars that supported my decision and were responsible for influencing my evolution. I also gained good friends and contacts for strong personal and professional networking.
The Postgraduate Program in Digital Enterprise Management at NOVA IMS helps business leaders to answer the challenges of the digital age by providing the tools to “orchestrate” the Why, What and How to deal with a business transformation. Also, the close connection of the professors between academia and the real world of business, the partnerships and the different backgrounds and industries of the colleagues, give us a great opportunity to learn and share knowledge activating our collective brain.
It was a great experience!
The need to expand my knowledge base in areas adjacent to mine led me to the postgraduate program in Digital Enterprise Management at NOVA IMS, which caught my attention due to the academic background it presented. The faculty with vast know-how, together with the use of practical case studies, ensured that the program was extremely challenging. Another point that enriched the experience was the heterogeneity of the colleagues' areas which leveraged the sharing of knowledge, also increasing the sphere of networking.

---

Length, timetable and exams
Length
The program lasts 2 semesters. The classes will start in February 2026, ending in December of the same year, and run after working hours (after 6:30 p.m.), 2 to 3 times a week.
Timetable
Fall Semester:
see the
timetable for the
M
andatory
Course
Units
here
and
the Elective Course Units
here
for the 2024-25 academic year.
Exams
Spring Semester:
See the exams calendar
here
for the academic year 2024-2025.
Admissions and fees
The Admissions' Jury Panel of NOVA IMS is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.
2
nd
applications phase
Between
March 10
th
and
April 10
th
, 2025.
Entry Requirements
To enter this program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Hold a bachelor's degree in a compatible field (completed by January 2026);
Be proficient in English (spoken and written).
How to Apply and Selection Process
To apply, you need to access the
NOVA IMS' Applications Portal
and follow these steps:
Fill in the form available in the user area, namely
:
Personal, academic and professional background;
Upload your Curriculum Vitae
(this
is the only mandatory document
for the application). Although it is not necessary to attach any other documents, the applicant has the option of including other documents that they consider relevant to enrich their application, such as a certificate of completion of their Bachelor's and/or Master's degree.
Please note
that if you are admitted, you will need to submit your Bachelor's and/or Master's degree completion certificate, or a certificate of attendance if you have not yet completed your degree, within one month;
Choose the program;
Present the goals and motivation for applying
to the program (limit 1,000 characters, including spaces);
Pay the application fee
. After this last step, the applicant will receive an email confirming their submitted application.
The selection process is based on the analysis of academic and professional curriculum. The members of the Admissions’ Jury Panel may decide to hold an interview with all or some applicants - face-to-face or videoconference.
Application Fee
The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period, non-refundable in case of withdrawal or non-admission in the program.
Tuition Fee
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program is:
€ 4.100, for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€ 4.900, for applicants of other nationalities.
For applications submitted until March 7
th
, a
€200 discount
will be applied to the tuition fee. There are special discount conditions and various payment methods available.
Tuition fee payment dates
The tuition fee of this postgraduate program can be paid in full or in four installments:
Full payment: February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2026;
Payment in four installments:
1
st
. February 22
nd
to 28
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
2
nd
. April 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
3
rd
. September 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee);
4
th
. November 25
th
to 30
th
, 2026 (25% of tuition fee).
Registration Fee
After being admitted to the program and upon confirmation of enrollment, the applicant must make a payment of a pre-registration fee (around one week after the admission result announcement), deductible in this postgraduate program's tuition fee, non-refundable in case of withdrawal, with the following value:
€1.250 for applicants with a nationality from a European Union member country;
€2.500 for applicants of other nationalities, unless their registration fee is provided by an official entity.
Upon registration, students should make the following payments:
€35 - for enrollment fee (the value is updated annually);
€1.40 - for annual school insurance (the value is updated annually).
Discounts
Financial discount: students who choose to pay the tuition fee in a single payment have a 2,5% discount on the payable
amount;
NOVA IMS’ alumni who have completed a bachelor's, postgraduate, master's, or doctoral degree at NOVA IMS have a 20% discount on tuition fee, cumulative with the financial discount;
Companies that finance the program to at least 2 employees, in the same academic year, have a 10% discount on the tuition
fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts;
Companies that finance the program to 3 or more employees, in the same academic year, have a 20% discount on the tuition
fee. This discount is not cumulative with other discounts;
Participants from clients or partners institutions, indicated by Google, SAP and IDC, have a 10% discount, not cumulative with
other discounts.
Members of the Ordem dos Engenheiros – Região Sul, have 15% discount on tuition fees. This discount can be extended to members' spouses and descendants upon presentation of valid documentation. For more information, please contact admissions@novaims.unl.pt. This discount is not cumulative with other financial discounts.