<Introduction>
Bachelor's Degrees
Information Systems
Nowadays, Information Technologies are present in the most diverse areas of knowledge and people's everyday lives, even when they do not realize it.
We permanently use intelligent systems, connectivity services, network equipment and data integration, which correspond to the computing platforms we know as: computers, tablets, smartphones, among many other equipment that share information and perform tasks.
In the Bachelor´s Degree in Information Systems, students learn to analyze, design and implement information systems, fundamental in modern organizations, which include artificial intelligence, new programming languages, development of apps and web systems, mobile computing, among others. They also acquire a set of tools that support the companies' business processes.
The 3
rd
phase of applications under the International Student Statute for the 2025/26 academic year are open from February 26
th
to March 27
th
, 2025.
Duration
3 years (6 semesters)
Timetable
Daytime
Start
September 2025
Career Opportunities
The Bachelor´s Degree in Information Systems allows fast integration in the most varied sectors of activity, namely: Information Technology Companies, Banking, Insurance, Health, Telecommunications, Logistics/Distribution, E-Business, Consulting and Public Administration. The main professional opportunities are:
Consultant in Information Systems and Technologies;
Database Administrator and Programmer;
Information Systems Project Manager;
Specialist in the development of Artificial Intelligence Systems;
Specialist in the implementation of Information Systems;
Software Developer;
Systems Analyst.
Technical and Managerial Positions in Public Administration.
At NOVA IMS we encourage continuous individual development through excellence.
- For this reason, we believe that we must reward all those who stand out at the entrance of the Bachelor´s Degree courses and who, during their academic career, work to exceed their and our expectations.
Academic Excellence Incentive
Application prize awarded to all students whose average entry grade to the National Competition is equal to or greater than 18 values

What does a graduate with Degree in Information Systems?
Manuela Aparício | Coordinator of the Bachelor Degree

<Who is it for?>
This degree is addressed to all high school finalist students, who are seeking a college education that enables them to master the Information Technologies in the operational management of the organizations, creating new products, services and business processes.
A degree in Information Systems aims at training professionals who are characterized by the ability to make the connection between the different business areas and the area of information systems. Being experts in analysis, design and implementation of information systems whose main task to improve the quality of decision making in organizations.

Program Goals
In this degree, it is intended that students acquire skills to analyze, design and implement systems and information technologies, providing a link between the different business areas and the area of information systems. In this context, by the end of the program, the Graduated in Information Systems shall:
Know the fundamentals of information systems as tools for effective increase productivity;
Master the concepts and theory that explains and motivates the methods and practices of the development and use of information systems in organizations as ways to increase organizational performance;
Understand the technical aspects of computer architecture, operating systems and connecting information resources via computer networks;
Be able to identify different approaches to physical design information systems using Systems Managers Database and development environments;
Be able to manage projects of information systems.
Program Educational Objectives
The Program educational objectives of the Information Systems are to produce graduates who, following a few years after graduation, are able to:
Become productive, responsible information systems professionals capable of conducting research and/or designing, developing, or maintaining projects in the various areas of Information Systems;
Demonstrate independent thinking, self-management, and functioning effectively in team-oriented and open-ended activities in a business or an industrial environment;
Develop leadership skills and perform ethically and professionally in business, industry, and society;
Excel in a career in an Information Systems related field.

<Student Outcomes>
The program objectives are to train experts and managers to be able to analyze, design and implement information systems, establishing the link between the different business areas and the area of information systems. Thus, the program aims to train graduates capable of using the information systems for improving the decision making process of organizations, with an advanced level of knowledge, comprehension and skills.
In this context, students that obtain a degree in Information Systems by NOVA IMS should be able to:
Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing and other relevant disciplines to identify solutions;
Design, implement, and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given set of computing requirements in the context of Information Systems;
Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts;
Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in computing practice based on legal and ethical principles;
Function effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities appropriate to Information Systems;
Support the delivery, use, and management of information systems within an information systems environment.
Information Systems Environment
The main information systems environment area is Business, including Organizational Management, Finance and Marketing. The Curriculum includes various courses that provide background in this environment. The courses are as follows:
Organizational Behavior;
Business Management;
Web Marketing and E-Commerce;
Information Systems Project Management;
Information Technologies, Governance and Service Management;
Entrepreneurship and Project Analysis;
Risk Management.
Degree Statistics
The total number of enrolled students in the three years of the program was 177 in 2020/2021, 165 in 2021/2022, and 182 in 2022/2023. The number of graduates over the three years of the program was 40 in 2020/2021, 34 in 2021/2022, and 33 in 2022/2023.
Program Structure
The course lasts 3 years (6 semesters) and classes start in September 2025.
The study plan corresponds to 180 ECTS, of which 150 ECTS correspond to mandatory curricular units (the first 5 semesters) and 30 ECTS correspond to optional curricular units (last semester of the course), which will be chosen by each Student, from among a wide range of curricular units available.

<Admissions and Fees>
Establishment Code:
0906 - Universidade Nova de Lisboa - Instituto Superior de Estatística e Gestão de Informação
Course Code:
8259
Entry Exam Subjects (One of the following):
19 - Mathematics A and 04 - Economy
19 - Mathematics A and 02 - Biology and Geology
19 - Mathematics A and 07 - Physics and Chemistry
16 - Mathematics and 18 - Portuguese
16 - Mathematics and 09 - Geography
16 - Mathematics and 13 - English

NOTICE:
The exams presented are valid for admissions in the 2025/26 academic year, through the National Competition for Access to Higher Education.
Minimum Grades
Applicants Grade: 100
Entry Exam Grade: 95
Formula of Applicants Grade
Secondary School Grade: 50%
Entry Exam Subjects: 50%
Prerequesites
None
Vacancies
43
General Quota Last Entry Grade 2024-2025
1
st
Phase - 16.88
2
nd
Phase - 17.11
2025/26 Academic Year
Consult the entrance exams applicable to 2025/26 in the Frequently Asked Questions.
Achievement Awards
(*)
Prize corresponding to the 1
st
year tuition fee.
The undergraduate students who achieve a high level of academic performance each year will have access to the following awards
(1)
:
Approved ECTS
Average (Values)
Award
At the end of the 1
st
year of Enrollment
equal or greater than 60
equal or greater than 16,5
700€
At the end of the 2
nd
year of Enrollment
equal or greater than 120
equal or greater than 16,5
700€
At the end of the 3
rd
year of Enrollment
equal or greater than 180
equal or greater than 16,5
€3.000 off (2)
(1)
Prize applied to students admitted in 2024/2025.
(2)
The value of the tuition for a master's degree to be attended at the NOVA IMS, if admission and enrollment occur in the year immediately following the completion of the bachelor's degree. Not cumulative with Alumni discount. Cumulative with financial discount.
Excellence awards given by the Members of AD NOVA IMS and other supportive entities (3)
All students that stand out, during their academic path, for their academic excellence in the different course units and programs are also awarded.
(3)
Prizes in force in the school year 2023/24.
AD NOVA IMS Member
Best Finalist Student
€1.500
Best Student of the Course Units
€1.500

Supportive Entities
Best student of the Course Unit
€1.000
Best Student of Undergraduate and Master Degree Programs
Scholarship with Value to be Defined
Best Application Grade
€1.000

Tuition Fee
The annual fee set for the academic year
2024/25,
for the students of the National Contest for Access to Higher Education,
is €697.
This payment can be paid in full or in 10 instalments.
For the students of the International Student Contest, the annual fee for the academic year
2024/25, is €7500.
This payment can also be paid in full or in 5 instalments.
The Student (national or international), when registering for a school year, has to take into account that the full payment of the tuition fee fixed for that school year (the monthly fees/benefits are a payment facility), even if they cancel the registration/withdraw of the course.


